	Trump’s call for unity slams into reality of Washington’s political divisions	Democrats appeared unmoved by the conciliatory tone of Trump’s first State of the Union address, while Republicans admit there are some intraparty divisions over president’s plans.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Images/323240133_0-4.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/trump-sets-ambitious-agenda-touts-new-american-moment-in-state-of-the-union-speech/2018/01/31/ddfb3334-067e-11e8-b48c-b07fea957bd5_story.html	The Washington Post	President Trump’s call for unity met the cacophony of Washington politics Wednesday, as Democrats redoubled criticism of his policies and Republicans acknowledged differences of opinion within their party on immigration.  Trump, in his first State of the Union address Tuesday, called for the two parties to come together — remarks sharply at odds with the combative manner in which Trump has conducted his presidency so far.  The president also outlined an ambitious agenda for his second year in office, from a $1.5 trillion plan to rebuild the nation’s crumbling infrastructure, to a four-pronged immigration package, to a pledge to reduce prescription drug prices.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.) called Trump’s infrastructure spending request “a big number” that he expects to be discussed when Republicans gather for a party retreat Wednesday and Thursday in West Virginia.  [Winners and losers from Trump’s State of the Union]  Funding such a plan “won’t all come from the federal coffers,” Brady said Wednesday as he boarded a bus to Washington’s Union Station. “We have to find ways to bring dollars off the sidelines.”  Rep. Patrick T. McHenry (R-N.C.), a deputy whip and rising star in his caucus, said a big topic at the retreat will be how to pay for Trump’s infrastructure plan. “We’ll talk about it this weekend,” he said as Republicans prepared to depart on a chartered train.  The train collided with a truck near Crozet, Va., midday Wednesday. The extent of the injuries was not immediately clear, though dozens of lawmakers tweeted they were safe.  The president also laid out details of his immigration package, offering citizenship for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, who are known as “dreamers,” in return for increased spending on border security, including for his promised wall at Mexico’s border; an end to the visa lottery; and limits on family reunification policies.  Part of Trump’s challenge will be persuading members of his own party to back the plan. House Republicans voiced opposition to his approach just hours before Trump’s speech, with some arguing against offering dreamers citizenship.  “We have members on both sides who don’t want a special pathway to citizenship,” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) said Tuesday night. “But obviously not having a second-class citizen with just legal status is obviously something we need to address.”  Trump used some of his most polarizing language when lamenting crime from MS-13 and other gangs, which he blamed on “open borders.” He sought to repurpose the term “dreamer” by saying American citizens have seen their economic prospects dimmed and personal safety put at risk because of illegal immigration.  [FEMA to stop distributing emergency food and water to Puerto Rico]  Democrats slammed the president for “scapegoating a population of people by inciting fear,” as Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) put it.  “This has been an administration that has decided that it profits politically from selling hate and division in our country,” she said.  Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), who supports protections for dreamers, credited Trump for supporting a 12-year pathway to citizenship for the group.  “But the overall tone on immigration? Not so much,” Flake said. “If you’re going to mention MS-13, then mention a dreamer, one that has accomplished a lot. Instead of the ‘American Carnage’ version of immigration.”  Trump has set a March deadline to end the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which has protected those who applied from deportation, and lawmakers are scrambling to come up with an alternative that can survive the political crosscurrents of both chambers.  The speech came at a moment when the president faces a number of challenges: historically bad approval ratings for a chief executive at this point in his term, an investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election hanging over his administration and midterm elections ahead in which Democrats are expected to make significant gains in Congress.  Walking off the House floor after his speech, Trump was caught on video telling Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.) that he would “100 percent” release a classified GOP-drafted memo alleging surveillance abuses by the FBI.  The comment effectively ended speculation about whether Trump would support declassifying the document, which Democrats argue will undermine federal law enforcement agencies and special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s probe into Russia’s election interference.  White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders sought to tamp down the controversy spurred by Trump’s remark, saying there are no “current plans” to release the memo and there’s “always a chance” it will not be released.  “We’re still going to complete the legal and national security review that has to take place,” she said, adding that Trump has not “seen or been briefed” on the memo’s contents.  Republicans enjoy total dominance in Washington, with the Democrats shut out of power in Congress and the White House. But the party has only one major legislative accomplishment, a new tax law, to show for its first year in full control.  Trump pointed to that achievement — which he again falsely claimed is “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history” — as contributing to a resurgent economy. He ticked off growth in jobs, wages, small-business confidence and a stock market that “smashed one record after another, gaining $8 trillion in value.”  While Republicans cheered throughout, Democrats sat stonily. When Trump said the unemployment rate among African Americans was at a record low, for example, members of the Congressional Black Caucus refrained from applauding.  To give their official response, Democratic leaders picked third-term Rep. Joe Kennedy (Mass.), who marks the third generation of the Kennedy clan to serve in Congress. He spoke from a technical-school auto shop in Fall River, Mass.  [Best behavior: How Trump alters his tone to suit the occasion]  “It would be easy to dismiss the past year as chaos, partisanship, politics,” Kennedy said. “But it’s far bigger than that. This administration isn’t just targeting the laws that protect us — they are targeting the very idea that we are all worthy of protection.”  Trump made only passing reference to the devastation in Puerto Rico from Hurricane Maria, the federal government’s response to which has been widely criticized as inadequate and slow.  Trump turned even more than presidents typically do to the stories of guests, seated in the gallery box of first lady Melania Trump, to put human faces on his policies and build the narrative arc of his speech. A president so often preoccupied with self-adulation shone the spotlight on ordinary citizens.  Near the end of the speech, as he talked about the nuclear threat of North Korea — which has escalated under his watch amid heated rhetoric — Trump singled out the tragedy of Otto Warmbier, the University of Virginia student who was detained in North Korea and died just after returning home to the United States. In one of the evening’s emotional high points, Trump directed attention to Warmbier’s parents, who sat teary-eyed in the gallery, as “powerful witnesses to a menace that threatens our world.”  Though he did not say “Little Rocket Man,” his provocative nickname for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, he spoke with toughness and resolve about the threat across the Pacific.  “We need only look at the depraved character of the North Korean regime to understand the nature of the nuclear threat it could pose to America and to our allies,” he said.  Trump did not mention the Russia investigation, which is reaching a critical point that could include the president being called in for an interview with special counsel Mueller’s team.  Ed O’Keefe, David A. Fahrenthold and Sean Sullivan contributed to this report.
	Former president Ronald Reagan acknowledges Lenny Skutnik in 1982	The President Ronald Reagan applauded Lenny Skutnik in his 1982 State of the Union address after Skutnik jumped into the icy Potomac to save a woman after a plane crash.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517411407507_name_Screen_Shot_2018_01_31_at_10_07_49_AM.png?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/politics/ronald-reagan-acknowledges-lenny-skutnik/2018/01/31/6f8ff9d8-0698-11e8-aa61-f3391373867e_video.html	The Washington Post	Why the FBI disagrees with Trump over the memo
	New American Economy: 'Dreamers' | Campaign 2018	A pro-immigration group led by former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg is airing a new television advertisement over Congress's inaction to protect "dreamers."	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517410785192_name_dreamersad.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/politics/new-american-economy-dreamers--campaign-2018/2018/01/31/2d1a14a4-0697-11e8-aa61-f3391373867e_video.html	The Washington Post	What it would take for Republicans to move on DACA
	‘A bad dream’: Pro-immigration group headed by Michael Bloomberg targets 14 senators over fate of ‘dreamers’	A new ad says the dreamers have “done everything right” but could be “forced to leave the only country” they have ever known if Congress fails to reach an immigration deal.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2017/08/24/Production/Daily/Editorial-Opinion/Images/Trump_Immigration_77634-eede7.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2018/01/31/a-bad-dream-pro-immigration-group-headed-by-michael-bloomberg-targets-14-senators-over-fate-of-dreamers/	The Washington Post	A pro-immigration group headed by former New York City mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is targeting 14 senators in a new television advertisement and phone campaign this fall over the fate of young undocumented immigrants known as “dreamers.”  In a six-figure ad buy launching Wednesday, the group, New American Economy, describes the dreamers, who have been in the United States illegally since they were children, as graduates, scientists and baristas who have “done everything right” but could be “forced to leave the only country” they have ever known if Congress fails to reach an immigration deal.  The ad comes a day after President Trump made his first public case for a White House immigration proposal that offers a 12-year path to citizenship for as many as 1.8 million dreamers, while also asking for $25 billion for a border wall and sharp cuts to legal immigration programs.  Congress is facing a Feb. 8 deadline for a must-pass spending bill to keep the government open, but some lawmakers said they will not support a long-term deal that does not include an agreement on immigration. Last fall, Trump terminated the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that had provided work permits for hundreds of thousands of dreamers, and he set a March 5 deadline for Congress before the bulk of the permits begin to expire. (A federal judge this month issued an injunction ordering the administration to resume DACA, but legal experts said it would probably be overturned if challenged.)  “Imagine it was you,” a narrator says in the New American Economy ad. “You’ve done everything right, but now you’ll lose your job, your education, your family — forced to leave the only country you’ve ever known. For 800,000 dreamers who came here as kids, it’s not a bad dream. If Congress fails to act, that’s the future they face: lives ruined, the economy and military hurt.”  Department of Homeland Security officials have said about 800,000 dreamers have enrolled in DACA since President Barack Obama created it through executive authority in 2012. However, officials said about 690,000 were covered by the program when Trump ended it in September.  Conservative Republicans in the House have revolted against Trump's immigration plan, saying they do not support citizenship for the dreamers. Democrats have denounced the plan, saying the cuts to legal immigration are draconian.  “We presented Congress with a detailed proposal that should be supported by both parties as a fair compromise, one where nobody gets everything they want, but where our country gets the critical reforms it needs and must have,” Trump said Tuesday night in his State of the Union address to Congress. Of the dreamers, Trump said: “Under our plan, those who meet education and work requirements, and show good moral character, will be able to become full citizens of the United States over a 12-year period.”  The New American Economy advertisement and phone campaign will target South Dakota, North Dakota, Missouri, Alaska, Colorado, Georgia, Kansas, Maine, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Utah.
	Melania Trump enters the Capitol	First lady Melania Trump made her first public appearance in nearly a month at President Trump's State of the Union address on Jan. 30.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517409845398_name_melania.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/politics/melania-enters-the-capitol/2018/01/31/d6cd0784-0694-11e8-aa61-f3391373867e_video.html	The Washington Post	All the times President Trump clapped at his own State of the Union lines
	The Health 202: Trump seems to see opioid crisis as primarily a law enforcement problem	But many experts think it is primarily a medical one.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://palomaimages.washingtonpost.com/pr2/0300c1b66f2460721f0cdaab953cd1cd-4680-3324-70-8-State_of_Union_08098jpg89648.jpg&w=220&h=164&t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-health-202/2018/01/31/the-health-202-trump-seems-to-see-opioid-crisis-as-primarily-a-law-enforcement-problem/5a70cc2130fb041c3c7d74ef/	The Washington Post	Last night, President Trump indicated once again that he views the nation's opioid abuse crisis as more of an issue to be dealt with by law enforcement than by medical professionals.  In his State of the Union address, the president correctly described the toll overdose is taking on the country -- noting deaths from drugs caused 64,000 deaths in 2016 -- and promised to go after the problem in the coming year. But while he mentioned in passing a need for better addiction treatment, Trump offered no new details on that front. He instead emphasized the need for law enforcement to stem the supply and distribution of illegal drugs.  “We must get much tougher on drug dealers and pushers if we are going to succeed in stopping this scourge,” Trump said.  The U.S. drug supply has only gotten bigger and deaths from overdose have steadily increased over the past several decades. But during that period, U.S. officials focused mainly on waging a "war on drugs" that mostly failed. Many experts have always argued the problem of drug addiction has more to do with demand than supply, and it could be better tackled by providing better treatment and support to people struggling with addiction.  But ever since Trump declared opioid abuse a public health emergency last fall, most of the action has been taken by the Department of Justice, not the Department of Health and Human Services. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has announced several initiatives targeting drug trafficking, announcing in November a new division of the Drug Enforcement Agency to unify trafficking investigations in Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia.  Yesterday, Sessions said DEA agents will conduct a “surge” operation over the next 45 days to focus on pharmacies and prescribers who are dispensing unusual or disproportionate amounts of opioids, the Post's Sari Horwitz and Scott Higham report. The agency will check data from about 80 million reports it collects every year from prescription drug manufacturers and distributors.  “My administration is committed to fighting the drug epidemic and helping get treatment for those in need,” the president said in his speech. “The struggle will be long and difficult – but, as Americans always do, we will prevail.”  Now, any increased focus on opioid abuse seems like a good thing considering it's a multi-faceted problem. Pretty much everyone agrees on that. Where advocates have gotten is frustrated is in the lack of much new funding for tackling the epidemic and a dearth of details from HHS on how it might address the issue from a prevention and addiction treatment perspective.  HHS did release a list of actions it says it has taken over the past year to address the crisis, although some of them were before Trump made his emergency declaration. The agency said it has:  --Disbursed more than $800 million in grants, more than any previous year.  --Developed a five-point strategy, encompassing better treatment, prevention, and recovery services; better targeting of overdose-reversing drugs; better data on the epidemic; better research on pain and addiction, and better pain management.  --Approved new Medicaid waivers for two states to expand access to substance-abuse treatment and outlined a streamlined process for more such approvals.  --Started to release monthly provisional data from the CDC on drug overdose deaths, shortening what had been up to a two-year lag.  --Clarified privacy regulations to inform hospitals and doctors they can share information with patients’ families during crisis situations.  --Approvrf through FDA the first monthly formulation of buprenorphine, a key option for medication-assisted treatment of opioid addiction.  Trump didn’t share any further details Tuesday night, instead highlighting a New Mexico family – Ryan and Rebecca Holets -- who adopted a baby born to a woman addicted to heroin.  “Ryan and Rebecca: You embody the goodness of our nation,” Trump said. “Thank you, and congratulations.”  Alex Azar, newly instated HHS secretary, said in a statement last night that Trump deserves "tremendous credit for his leadership" on the opioid issue.  "During his first year in office, President Trump has brought a new level of awareness and commitment to this cause, and I look forward to expanding and enhancing our aggressive approach to this scourge of addiction and overdose," said Azar, who was just sworn in on Monday.  Yet Trump stopped short of asking Congress to appropriate any more funding toward the opioid epidemic, even though Democrats and even some Republicans are pouring on the pressure. Earlier in the day, Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) urged the president to address the crisis in his speech and stressed the need for certainty on the resources available to fight it.  "We need his leadership, we need to know how many resources we have to spend and get busy trying to make a difference in the lives of people who have been devastated by this epidemic," Blunt said.  Health care didn't get a ton of airtime during last night's SOTU -- certainly not as much as in years past. Yet besides talking about opioids, Trump touched briefly on prescription drugs and the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate. A few key points:  --Trump promised to bring down the high cost of prescription drugs, pointing to recent major strides by the FDA in speeding approvals of generic drugs. “To speed access to breakthrough cures and affordable generic drugs, last year the FDA approved more new and generic drugs and medical devices than ever before in our history,” he said.  Last week, HHS released a report that the FDA approved 1,027 generic drugs in one year, more than any other single year in the agency’s history, including the previous record of 800 approvals in 2016. FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb has pointed to more generic drugs as a way of lowering prescription drug prices in the United States, where medications cost more than in any other developed country.  But Trump didn’t mention a much more controversial idea, one championed by Democrats: Allowing Medicare to negotiate down the price of drugs with the private companies that manufacture them. On the campaign trail, Trump bucked his party in calling for such negotiations, but has backed away from the idea since becoming president. Instead, Trump said only that he plans to focus on drug prices in the coming year – and vowed they’ll get less expensive.  “One of my greatest priorities is to reduce the price of prescription drugs,” he said. “That is why I have directed my administration to make fixing the injustice of high drug prices one of our top priorities. Prices will come down.”  --Trump also told lawmakers to pass a federal version of so-called “Right to Try” laws, already passed by multiple states to allow terminally ill patients access to potentially lifesaving medications not yet fully approved by the FDA. Vice President Pence recently tweeted support of a federal Right to Try law, and the idea appears to be gaining momentum in Congress although some experts question how useful it would be.  “People who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure – I want to give them a chance right here at home,” Trump said. “It is time for the Congress to give these wonderful Americans the ‘right to try.’”  --Trump skirted one of his biggest losses: failing to repeal and replace the ACA. Instead, he pointed to how Congress did repeal the law's individual mandate to buy health coverage in its tax overhaul. “The individual mandate is now gone,” he said.  AHH: The FDA is cracking down on anti-diarrhea treatments that could be adding to the opioid epidemic's death toll. Yesterday, the agency asked manufacturers of Imodium A-D and similar medications to change the way they package their products, with the aim of curbing abuse by people with drug addictions, The Post's Laurie McGinley reports.  The target here is loperamide, the generic name for an anti-diarrheal agent sometimes referred to as “the poor man's methadone" because in large quantities it induces a cheap, mild high and relieves withdrawal symptoms for drugs like hydrocodone, morphine or heroin. People with addiction problems increasingly are turning to loperamide as prescription opioids become harder to obtain.  The FDA has asked manufacturers to refashion their packages to contain only enough medication for short-term use. For example, a single package might contain eight 2-milligram capsules, enough for just two days. The agency also wants makers to use “unit dose packaging,” such as blister packs that must be individually unpeeled per dosage, Laurie writes.  OOF: The Post's Robert Samuels chronicles the uncertainty and sense of neglect felt by parents depending on the Children's Health Insurance Program to keep their kids insured, as Congress allowed the program to go months without long-term funding. He interviewed Varina Mead, a single mom of two who works for a nonprofit in Alabama. Varina described the anxiety she felt as she watched Congress drag its feet; she depends heavily on CHIP coverage for her 10-year-old daughter, who has asthma, and her 8-year-old son, who has been diagnosed with ADHD. "They treated my kids' health insurance like it was a game," Mead told Robert.  "Nine million children use the CHIP program nationally, and many of their families across the country were scrambling in the uncertainty," Robert writes. "Some parents contemplated working more hours to afford higher health-care costs. Others discussed quitting their jobs. This way, they could lower their income enough to qualify for Medicaid. If they couldn't afford insurance, what was the point of working?"  "There was harm and foul in this limbo period," said Jim Carnes, policy director of Alabama Arise, a local advocacy organization. "Those who contend that there wasn't do not appreciate the burden it put on working parents with children with health-care needs. They don't understand how unfair the process was to say, 'We're going to toy around with your children's health insurance for a while and see what comes out of it.'"  OUCH: CDC Director Brenda Fitzgerald bought shares in a tobacco company one month after she took over the agency tasked with persuading smokers to quit. It’s one of about a dozen investments Fitzgerald made in drug and food companies since she began in her role, Politico’s Sarah Karlin-Smith and Brianna Ehley report.  “Buying shares of tobacco companies raises even more flags than Fitzgerald’s trading in drug and food companies because it stands in such stark contrast to CDC’s mission to persuade smokers to quit and keep children from becoming addicted,” Sarah and Brianna wrote. “Critics say her trading behavior broke with ethical norms for public health officials and was, at best, sloppy. At worst, they say, it was legally problematic if she didn't recuse herself from government activities that could have affected her investments.”  “You don’t buy tobacco stocks when you are the head of the CDC. It’s ridiculous, it gives a terrible appearance,” Richard Painter, George W. Bush’s chief ethics lawyer, told Politico.  An HHS spokesman confirmed the stock purchase, calling it “potentially conflicting,” and noted the stock had subsequently been sold. Politico reports documents show Fitzgerald sold the tobacco shares on Oct. 26, and any other stock holdings above $1,000 by Nov. 21. At that point, she had been CDC director for more than four months.  --This caught our eye (and the eye of everyone else in the health-care world). Amazon (whose owner Jeff Bezos also owns The Post), Berkshire Hathaway and JP Morgan Chase announced yesterday they're partnering to create an independent company aimed at reining in health-care costs for their U.S. employees. Few details are available so far, but it's clear the companies (which collectively employ more than 1 million workers worldwide) have a real interest in taking on the tricky task of ratcheting down their spending on health-care, our colleague Carolyn Y. Johnson reports.  "Major health company stock prices tumbled on the news, and the announcement stirred excitement — and questions — about how the three companies could bring their clout to containing costs in the massive employer-sponsored health insurance market, which provides coverage to approximately 160 million Americans," Carolyn writes.  A person at one of the companies said specific plans will take shape over time, but the joint venture is not currently expected to be a direct replacement for existing health-care insurers, hospitals or pharmaceutical companies, Carolyn reports. Rather, the plans are for the effort to result in a company that can bring technology tools to bear on making health care more transparent, affordable and simple, the person said.  “The ballooning costs of healthcare act as a hungry tapeworm on the American economy. Our group does not come to this problem with answers. But we also do not accept it as inevitable,” Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway chairman, said in a statement.  --But the White House wants to be seen as the winner on tamping down health-care spending. The Trump administration has already made moves to lower health-care costs by allowing for the expansion of association health plans, Gary Cohn, director of the National Economic Council, told CNBC yesterday, shortly after the three companies made their announcement.  "Earlier last year, we created association health-care plans, which is the exact same thing that those three companies did," Cohn told CNBC. "Smaller businesses could pool their employees together to get more purchasing power, so they could save money on health care."  We will venture so far as to say that the administration is touting a bigger win on association health plans than is backed up by evidence at this point. It remains to be seen how many health associations are formed under the new rule, how many people such plans would cover and what the coverage would even look like. In The Health 202, we've explored past problems with association-like plans.  --This week, Post filmmaker Nicole Ellis is exploring her own decision to use technology to postpone having children. In her first article and episode, she tells of how she decided to freeze her eggs after realizing she'd be in her mid-30s before trying to conceive, given her life circumstance at the time.  "In a world where my uterus is pitted against me, freezing my eggs could level the playing field by giving me more control over my reproductive life span," Nicole writes. "Yet I need a concrete understanding of how my body works and how egg-freezing works in order to take the helm of my reproductive health. I knew the basics — for example that women experience a decline in fertility in their 30s."  "But why does that happen? Is it the same for every woman?," Nicole asks. "And why are conversations about our fertility couched in comparisons to a man’s seemingly never-ending supply of sperm? I soon discovered that it might have something to do with the origins of the now-infamous term 'biological clock.'"  --A few more good reads from The Post and beyond:  Watch the second and third episode of the series “Should I Freeze My Eggs?" from The Post's Nicole Ellis:  Watch President Trump clap at his own State of the Union lines:  Here are lawmakers' reactions — the good and the bad — during Trump's first State of the Union:
	The Finance 202: Trump's State of the Union address isn't going to reshape Washington agenda	Let's be real here.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://palomaimages.washingtonpost.com/pr2/0209d067d136508e5269380a6d0caa8d-2464-1640-70-8-SOTU2018_032001.jpg&w=220&h=164&t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-finance-202/2018/01/31/the-finance-202-trump-s-state-of-the-union-address-isn-t-going-to-reshape-washington-agenda/5a70f9f530fb041c3c7d7527/	The Washington Post	Let’s be real: President Trump's State of the Union speech isn’t going to reshape the Washington agenda. These addresses rarely do. And the likelihood is diminished even further when it’s delivered by a president whose daily, working persona bares such a vanishing resemblance to the one who turns up occasionally, on nights like Tuesday, to read words off of a teleprompter.  With that caveat, some notes on President Trump’s first official State of the Union:  1. Not building a bridge to an infrastructure package  Trump called for lawmakers to “produce a bill that generates at least $1.5 trillion for the new infrastructure investment we need.” That's a leap from the $1 trillion investment Trump called for in his first address to a joint session of Congress last year.  But if the president who revels in touting his building prowess intended to make the push his top priority for the year, it wasn’t evident from this speech. As the New York Times’s Ben Casselman notes, immigration eclipsed infrastructure as a focus:  An infrastructure plan that the White House once promised to produce this month now won’t roll out until sometime in February. And Trump on Tuesday didn’t shed any light on how his administration will propose covering the cost, as my colleague Heather Long points out, instead talking only “generally about getting some dollars from private companies and from state and local governments.” (CNBC's Kayla Tausche has this preview of the administration's moving target.)  In a note to clients after the speech, Evercore ISI’s Terry Haines writes, “We remain of the view that successful infrastructure legislation is only 20 per cent likely: it is no closer to policy agreement or potential bipartisanship than before.”  The president avoided any potentially market-rattling pronouncements on the trade front, following the softer tone he’s struck so far this year. Indeed, here were the 78 words he dedicated to the subject in total:  That toes a vaguely Trumpian line on the subject, but more notable is what’s missing: Any mention of countries by name or pending negotiations — including those with Mexico and Canada — over specific deals and terms that he will and won’t accept.  Still, The Post's David Lynch read a message to China between the lines — and Trump called the nation out later in the speech as challenging "our interests, our economy and our values.”  U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Tom Donohue issued a warning: “The economic gains we’re seeing from regulatory relief and tax reform could be erased if we do not stand up for and protect free, fair, and reciprocal trade around the world,” he said in a statement. “It’s clear that if the U.S. isn’t leading on trade, we’re falling behind.”  Here's the speech, in three minutes:  Trump made a number of inaccurate or questionable assertions about his signature legislative achievement. For example, he repeated the falsehood that the package represents “the biggest tax cuts and reform in American history.” It isn’t.  And he described it as “providing tremendous relief for the middle class and small businesses.” As Washington Post Fact Checker Glenn Kessler points out, that’s at best misleading, since “most of the benefits in the tax bill flow to corporations and the wealthy, according to numerous independent analysts.”  More from Glenn: “More than three-quarters of the $1.1 trillion in individual tax cuts will go to people who earn more than $200,000 a year in taxable income, who constitute only about five percent of all taxpayers, according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service that warned the tax plan will have negative consequences for the fiscal health of federal and local governments.”  And the president took full credit for corporate investments, at least some of which were already on the books, including Apple and ExxonMobil.  4. Investing too much in a roaring market.  The president, per his habit, touted the stock market’s gains under his leadership. “The stock market has smashed one record after another, gaining $8 trillion in value in just this short period of time,” he said. “That is great news for Americans’ 401k, retirement, pension, and college savings accounts.”  One danger in bragging about a rising stock market is that it can move in both directions, as it has demonstrated this week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average on Tuesday fell 363 points, its worst day since August. And the index has posted two days in a row of triple-digit declines as stocks have seen their worst back-to-back slides since May.  Some market watchers say the pullback represents healthy break from the pace of recent gains. Already in January, the S&P 500 notched 14 record closes, its most since June 1955, according to LPL Financial. Goldman Sachs, for one, is predicting a 10 to 20 percent drop in share prices in the coming months, though not necessarily for long.  As for the impact of the speech itself, recent history indicates it doesn’t move markets.  Dating back to 2001, the S&P 500 has moved not at all on average — 0.0 percent — on the day following the address. It has shed an average of 1 percent in the week following but climbed 0.74 percent in the next month, according to figures from Bespoke Investment Group:  — Congress shrugs at deficit. NYT's Alan Rappeport and Thomas Kaplan: "Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin urged Congress on Tuesday to raise the federal government’s statutory borrowing limit and said Washington must soon grapple with the mounting federal debt, just as lawmakers are embarking on a significant spending spree. Annual deficits are creeping up to $1 trillion and the national debt has topped $20 trillion. On Monday, Treasury said that the United States will need to borrow $441 billion in privately held debt this quarter, the largest sum since 2010, when the economy was emerging from the worst downturn since the Great Depression. Yet the need to deal with the federal debt seems to have taken a back seat to other priorities, including the $1.5 trillion tax cut, increased defense and domestic spending, and an expected infrastructure request from President Trump."  — Fannie, Freddie bill boosts affordable housing. Bloomberg's Joe Light: "A Senate bill to overhaul the U.S. mortgage-finance system would devote billions of dollars to boosting home ownership among lower-income borrowers, according to a recent draft obtained by Bloomberg News. For some left-leaning lawmakers, that won’t be enough. The draft, the result of discussions between Tennessee Republican Bob Corker and Virginia Democrat Mark Warner, gives the clearest view yet into how the senators aim to woo progressive politicians to back their plan for addressing mortgage-giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Support from those Democrats is likely needed to meet the 60-vote threshold for passing major bills in the Senate."  — Banks, credit unions push bank relief bill. American Banker's Ian McKendry: "Banks and credit unions teamed up Monday to urge lawmakers to bring a regulatory relief bill reforming certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank to the full Senate floor for a vote. The bill is the result of years or careful negotiations between Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, and moderate Democrats to make targeted Dodd-Frank reforms. The legislation was cleared by the committee last month, and has enough support to avoid a Democratic filibuster."  — California advances SALT workaround. WSJ's Alejandro Lazo: "California’s attempt at circumventing a key piece of President Donald Trump’s tax plan cleared its first major hurdle Tuesday, when the state Senate approved legislation allowing residents to pay taxes through a federally deductible, state-run charity. Similar measures are under consideration in New York and New Jersey, but California is the first to advance such a measure, according to the Washington, D.C.-based Tax Foundation. The bill, which passed with a vote of 27-7, now moves to the Democratic-controlled state Assembly. If it passes there, it will then head to the desk of Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat."  — Ricketts to replace Wynn. The Post's Bob Costa and Josh Dawsey: "Chicago business executive Todd Ricketts is expected to accept the role of Republican National Committee finance chair, according to four people familiar with the matter. A formal vote was expected to happen Tuesday. Ricketts is working closely with the White House and RNC leaders on the appointment, those people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe private conversations. Casino mogul Steve Wynn, a friend of President Trump’s, stepped down Saturday as the party’s finance chair after dozens of people told the Wall Street Journal that Wynn engaged in sexual misconduct for decades."  RNC hasn't decided on returning Wynn's donations yet, Politico's Cristiano Lima reports. Party chair Ronna Romney McDaniel, in an appearance on Fox News: ""There is an investigation that’s going to take place. He should be allowed due process, and if he is found [guilty] of any wrongdoing, we will absolutely return 100 percent of that money. But we're going to let due process take place."  STATE OF THE STATE OF THE UNION:  — Trump can't sell himself. NYT's Peter Baker: "By some measures, he has managed to convince many Americans, especially corporate leaders, that the economy really is surging in a way it has not for years. The challenge for Mr. Trump is that even as he sells the economy with the fervor of a real estate developer, he has not been able to sell himself. His approval ratings remain at historic depths, and effectively unchanged after a year in office. His success at passing tax cuts and the continued progress of the economy he inherited have not changed the dismal views that a sizable majority of Americans hold of their president."  The Post's Heather Long looks at why Trump can't back up his jobs and wages claims... The Democratic watchdog Democracy Forward released a report charging Trump's infrastructure plan is a giveaway to his friends, Politico's Elana Schor reports... Glenn Kessler and The Post's fact-checking team run down all of Trump's whoppers and distortions... The Post's Dan Balz writes the speech emphasized unity though the president's record shows he's led by stoking controversy... Democrats, led by Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-Mass.), responded by saying the economic gains under Trump's presidency haven't been shared widely enough, The Post's Dave Weigel reports.  — Ryan defends memo release. The Post's Karoun Demirjian: "House Speaker Paul D. Ryan on Tuesday defended the way that Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes handled a politically divisive vote to publicize a classified memo detailing alleged surveillance abuses by federal law enforcement agencies, but he warned against using it to discredit the special counsel’s probe of Russian meddling in the 2016 election.  Ryan (R-Wis.) said Nunes (R-Calif.) was following a well-established process when the committee voted Monday to release a GOP-drafted memo to the public, provided President Trump does not block its efforts within five days. The panel also voted to make a memo drafted by Democrats rebutting the GOP’s document available to House members to read in a secure facility, as the panel had done with the GOP memo 11 days earlier along party lines. Ryan suggested to reporters Tuesday that 'there may have been malfeasance at the FBI by certain individuals,' citing that as one of several reasons Republicans want “all of this information” contained in the memo 'to come out.'"  Top DOJ officials made a last-ditch plea Monday to halt the memo's release, The Post's Josh Dawsey and Devlin Barrett report... On his way out of the House chamber after delivering his speech last night, Trump told a Republican lawmaker he would "100 percent" release the memo, Karoun reports.  — Treasury cribs Forbes. BuzzFeed's John Hudson: "The striking similarity between a newly released Treasury Department report of Russian oligarchs and a 2017 list of wealthy Russians published in Forbes magazine is no coincidence. On Tuesday, a Treasury Department spokesperson confirmed to BuzzFeed News that the unclassified annex of the report was derived from Forbes’ ranking of the '200 richest businessmen in Russia 2017.' The revelation is likely to invite criticisms of the thoroughness of the Treasury Department’s report and reinforce the notion that the list is primarily a who’s who of the Russian elite rather than an official accounting of Kremlin-linked political corruption as some US lawmakers intended."  — Party like its 2006. The Post's Heather Long: The world's elite are partying like it's 2006, and that should probably scare us. Top business and political leaders, who met last week in the quaint ski chalet town of Davos, Switzerland, couldn't stop talking about the booming global economy, record stock markets and President Trump's tax cuts. They toasted the good times with bottles of bourbon that cost several thousand dollars each. But there is something unnerving about all of this: 2006 was followed by 2008, the worst financial crisis of just about everyone's lifetime. Some of the wisest minds at Davos said it feels eerily similar right now, and that's not comforting. 'The biggest concern I have is no one thinks there's a chance of a recession this year or next,' Carlyle Group co-founder David Rubenstein said. 'The conventional wisdom is usually wrong.'  — Bitcoin tumbles. Bloomberg's Eric Lam: "Cryptocurrencies are extending losses with Bitcoin headed for its worst monthly slide since December 2013 on the last day of January trading as U.S. regulators ramp up their scrutiny of one of the world’s largest digital currency exchanges while Facebook Inc. is banning ads tied to the industry. Bitcoin is down about 31 percent this month, trading at $9,817 as of 10:20 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to composite pricing compiled by Bloomberg. Rival coins Ripple, Ethereum and Litecoin are also down at least 2 percent, the data show."  Regulators are tightening screws, per Bloomberg's Matthew Leising: "U.S. regulators are scrutinizing one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges as questions mount over a digital token linked to its backers.The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sent subpoenas on Dec. 6 to virtual-currency venue Bitfinex and Tether, a company that issues a widely traded coin and claims it’s pegged to the dollar, according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified discussing private information. The firms share the same chief executive officer." ... And the SEC announced it is halting and freezing the assets of the largest initial coin offering to date, CNBC's Evelyn Cheng reports... One of KodakCoin's co-creators now regrets the move, The Post's Brian Fun reports.  And then there's this: "Miami Bitcoin Conference Stops Accepting Bitcoin Due to Fees and Congestion"  — How companies are spending their tax cuts. NYT's Keith Collins and Stephen Grocer have this helpful tally of how leading corporations are doling out the benefits from the tax package.  — Amazon, Berkshire, JP Morgan launch health company. The Post's Carolyn Y. Johnson: "Three giant and influential employers, Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JP Morgan Chase, announced Tuesday they were partnering to create an independent company aimed at reining in health-care costs for their U.S. employees. There were almost no details available about what the company would do or how it would use technology to disrupt and simplify the complicated fabric of American health care.  But there's no doubt that the companies, which collectively employ more than 1 million workers worldwide, have a real interest in ratcheting down their spending on health care. Health-care premiums are split between employers and employees and have been growing much faster than wages. Major health company stock prices tumbled on the news, and the announcement stirred excitement — and questions — about how the three companies could bring their clout to containing costs in the massive employer-sponsored health insurance market, which provides coverage to approximately 160 million Americans."  It could mess up the Fed's inflation goal. Bloomberg's Luke Kawa and co.: "Corporate America just wrote the Federal Reserve a prescription for low inflation. Warren Buffett, Jeff Bezos and Jamie Dimon’s plan to start an independent firm to manage health-care services for their 1.2 million employees at a lower cost has the potential to make the Fed’s 2 percent target for the core Personal Consumption Expenditure inflation index even more elusive over the long haul. Health makes up 22 percent of the gauge, and price increases in the sector had already been sluggish over the past decade or so... The effect won’t be seen right away, of course -- it takes a long time to build a new health-care system from the ground up -- but over the long term, the impact could be significant."  Watch President Trump clap at his own State of the Union lines:  Here are lawmakers' reactions — the good and the bad — during Trump's first State of the Union:  Watch Stephen Colbert's live show after the State of the Union:
	The Energy 202: Scott Pruitt was once unsure of Trump. Now he's unsure of the CO2 endangerment finding.	The EPA administrator backtracked on a few statements yesterday.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://palomaimages.washingtonpost.com/pr2/bd9051fe6fc2b75a862d9723a3eb67a4-5472-3648-70-8-Rex_EPA_Administrator_Scott_Pruitt_9348508D.jpg&w=220&h=164&t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-energy-202/2018/01/31/the-energy-202-scott-pruitt-was-once-unsure-of-trump-now-he-s-unsure-of-the-co2-endangerment-finding/5a70b8c630fb041c3c7d74ed/	The Washington Post	Did you hear what Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt said?  Not what grabbed all the headlines yesterday: back during a February 2016 radio interview Pruitt, then Oklahoma's attorney general, said, “Donald Trump in the White House would be more abusive to the Constitution than Barack Obama.” The watchdog group Documented timed the release of audio from the interview with Pruitt's trip to Capitol Hill for an oversight hearing, lending rhetorical ammunition to Democrats on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.  Back then, Pruitt (who was at the time a Jeb Bush supporter) argued a potential President Trump would take “unapologetic steps to use executive power to confront Congress in a way that is truly unconstitutional” — a sentiment shared by some congressional Democrats today.  The EPA administrator joins a sizable list of repentant Trump administration officials, including his own No. 2 at the agency, who balked early in the 2016 race at the thought of Trump becoming president. Minutes after the hearing ended, Pruitt sent out a statement saying that he has changed his mind: “After meeting him, and now having the honor of working for him, it is abundantly clear that President Trump is the most consequential leader of our time.”  However, there was something less headline-grabbing but more significant that Pruitt did in his rare appearance before lawmakers yesterday that should be of greater import to those concerned about climate change. The EPA chief left the door open to reconsidering a landmark 2009 finding from agency scientists that the warming caused by buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is a danger to human health.  “We have not made a decision or determination on that,” Pruitt said when asked by the committee's top Democrat, Sen. Tom Carper (Del.), whether he wants to leave th “endangerment finding” alone.  The remark stands in stark contrast to what Pruitt told the same committee one year ago this month — when he was still seeking the votes in the Senate to become EPA administrator.  In January 2017, Pruitt told the same Senate committee that “the endangerment finding is there and needs to be enforced and respected.”  Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) pressed Pruitt to ensure he had a firm commitment.  “You will not review that scientific finding?” the senator asked last year.  “There is nothing that I know that would cause a review at this point,” Pruitt responded.  Ruling in 2007 on a lawsuit Massachusetts brought against the George W. Bush administration, the Supreme Court found the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide if it determined to have endangered human health. So, one of the first things President Barack Obama's EPA set out to do was to study the issue, finding in 2009 that the atmosphere-warming effects of greenhouse gases do indeed pose a threat to people.  That 2009 scientific document gives the EPA legal justification under the Clean Air Act to regulate atmosphere-warming emissions such as carbon dioxide and methane. Undermining that Supreme Court-backed determination would pull the rug out from any future effort to regulate those gases, even in the future. As such, getting rid of the finding is the Holy Grail of environmental policy for some conservative critics who question the consensus among climate scientists that humans do warm the globe.  “The endangerment finding is the root of all global warming evil at the EPA, Steve Milloy, an attorney and frequent EPA critic, told the Heartland conference in November, “and we’re trying to figure out here what is the best way to get that thing reconsidered and undone.”  A few months earlier, Pruitt raised the hopes of those conservative critics by floating the idea of starting a “red team-blue team” exercise, akin to those used in strategic military planning, to debate the role that carbon dioxide plays in the Earth's climate system.  “What the American people deserve, I think, is a true, legitimate, peer-reviewed, objective, transparent discussion about CO2,” Pruitt told Breitbart in June.  Such a debate, which Pruitt has yet to stage, raised questions among government and industry officials about whether Pruitt intends to try to roll back the endangerment finding.  But as outside legal experts say — and as Pruitt probably understands — unwinding a scientific finding on man-made climate change that has the backing of 97 percent of scientific studies that took a stance on the issue will be a tough task for the EPA. It's one with no guarantee of success.  In the Senate this week, Pruitt just gave a hint that he may be up for the challenge.  — On to the main event: President Trump gave his first State of the Union address Tuesday evening. Here are some highlights on the energy and environmental front:  — Bill Nye feels the heat: 500 Women Scientists, a science-advocacy group, called out Bill Nye ahead of his appearance as a guest at the State of the Union. “As scientists, we cannot stand by while Nye lends our community’s credibility to a man who would undermine the United States’ most prominent science agency,” the group wrote in a blog post in the Scientific American published Tuesday. That man is Jim Bridenstine, a GOP lawmaker from Oklahoma who hosted Nye and who is Trump's pick to run NASA. Bridenstine has previously expressed skepticism of human-caused global warming.  A petition with more than 35,000 signatures on ClimateTruth.org also called on Nye to “not support the Trump administration’s disastrous climate denial agenda,” per Bloomberg. But Nye defended his attendance in Tuesday tweets:  — The hurricane season’s toll: Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria now rank in the top five most expensive hurricanes, according to a new report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Hurricane Katrina still ranks in the top spot, per the report, but Hurricane Sandy was knocked off its second-place ranking by the intense 2017 season, The Post’s Angela Fritz reports.  — There’s an emoji for that: A team of New York-based artists have come up with the newest way to communicate about the changing climate: The Climoji project. By making emoji for wildfires, smog-filled cities, emaciated polar bears, and methane-producing cows, its creators "are hoping that the Climoji can act as the equivalent of a flashing sign, a humorous conversation-starter or an alert signal,” NYU professor Marina Zurkow, who is leading the project, told The Post’s Allyson Chiu.  — How homebodies help the planet: As Americans spend more time staying put during the workweek, shifting their lifestyles to work from home and shop online, they are decreasing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, the New York Times reports. New research has found Americans spent 7.8 more days at home in 2012 compared with 2003, reducing energy demand nationwide by 1,700 trillion BTUs.  — Volkswagen fallout: The German carmaker suspended its chief lobbyist on Tuesday amid the controversy around a fraudulent study the company admitted was set up to produce false data about its diesel-powered vehicles. “Environmental groups and other critics of Volkswagen said the suspension of Mr. Steg, whose formal title at Volkswagen is head of external relations and sustainability, made him a sacrificial lamb meant to insulate the company’s top managers from consequences,” the New York Times reported.  — More on Exxon’s windfall: Following an announcement of a $50 billion investment in the United States for the next five years, ExxonMobil said it will triple its daily oil production in the Permian Basin to 600,000 barrels of oil by 2025, per CNBC. The Permian Basin, which runs beneath western Texas and eastern New Mexico, has become one of the most productive oil fields in the nation  "It was just completely bonkers": The Post's Amy Wang writes about the discovery of "the Holy Grail of dinosaurs" in Egypt — the left dentary, or lower jaw bone, of the new titanosaurian dinosaur as it was found in an approximately 80-million-year-old rock formation. The dinosaur, named Mansourasaurus and seen in the artist rendering above, would have been roughly the length of a school bus and weighed about the same as an African bull elephant.
	The Daily 202: State of the Union underscores why Trump is his own worst enemy	The president struggles to unify because he and his agenda are so divisive.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://palomaimages.washingtonpost.com/pr2/9a410696732d24ff76b18d2ac1b8110c-4962-3240-70-8-Rex_US_President_Donald_J_Trump_del_9348834BJ.jpg&w=220&h=164&t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/daily-202/2018/01/31/daily-202-state-of-the-union-underscores-why-trump-is-his-own-worst-enemy/5a71080230fb041c3c7d7528/	The Washington Post	THE BIG IDEA: A little humility goes a long way.  President Trump really enjoys talking about himself, his grievances and how he’s never treated fairly. In his first State of the Union address, he showcased other people. As a result, his approval rating is likely to inch up in the coming days.  The businessman who likes to put his name on buildings and declared “I alone can fix it” during his acceptance speech at the 2016 Republican convention spoke less in the first-person Tuesday than in any major address since he came down the escalator at Trump Tower three years ago to launch his campaign.  He used the word “we” 130 times, “our” 103 times and “us” 15 times. He mentioned “the people” nine times. He used the word “I” just 35 times and “my” 14 times. He went with the second person “you” 25 times, though that includes “thank you.”  Trump is a consummate showman, and his stagecraft was top notch. He played the pomp and circumstance to his advantage. The first reality television president seemed to be channeling Mike Deaver, Ronald Reagan’s image guru, by pointing to a bevy of ordinary people who have done extraordinary things.  Reagan began this tradition by highlighting the heroism of Lenny Skutnik in his 1982 State of the Union. The federal employee had jumped into the icy Potomac to save a woman from drowning after a plane crash.  The official White House transcript shows that Trump was interrupted by applause 117 times in 80 minutes. The bulk of those came when the president was praising others: the cop from New Mexico and his wife who adopted the baby of a heroin addict, the victim of torture in North Korea who escaped to freedom and defiantly held up crutches he no longer needs, the Army staff sergeant who performed CPR for 20 minutes and artificial respiration for two-and-a-half hours to save a comrade after an explosion in Iraq. He offered a touching tribute to House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, who recovered after being shot at congressional baseball practice.  He didn’t whine about “witch hunts,” or even elliptically refer to special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe, and he made just one passing mention of Russia (it was critical).  -- The speech offered a window into what might have been, if he had stuck to script and shown more self-discipline during his first year. Trump’s approval rating could easily be 10 points higher right now if he just behaved the way he did last night, even while pursuing an identical agenda. The speech worried politically savvy Democrats because it suggested that he has upside potential.  -- But, but, but: No serious person in either party believes that last night represents a real pivot to becoming more “presidential.”  The White House went to great lengths to say that the State of the Union would be “unifying.” Sure enough, Trump nodded to bipartisanship. He even wore a blue tie. “I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek out common ground, and to summon the unity we need to deliver for … the people we were elected to serve,” he declared.  But we’ve seen this movie before. “The time for trivial fights is behind us,” Trump declared in his address to Congress last year.  Reacting to that speech, specifically his praise for a Navy SEAL who died in a raid that went wrong, liberal pundit Van Jones declared on CNN: “He became president of the United States in that moment, period.”  Just a few days later, Trump falsely accused Barack Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower on Twitter. Jones has been mocked mercilessly since then. After watching the president spend the past year starting trivial fights, the commentator ripped into Trump last night on CNN for leaving the impression that many “dreamers” are gang members in his speech.  No one wants to be Lucy with the football in “Charlie Brown,” and the chattering class seems to have finally concluded that there will always be a Teleprompter Trump and a Twitter Trump. He will oscillate unpredictably and erratically between the two personas.  -- The president will perennially struggle to be a unifying figure because he is so personally divisive. It’s a feature, not a bug. Frankly, it’s part of his enduring appeal to the GOP base.  One of the people Trump gave a shout-out to last night was a 12-year-old from California who organized a campaign to put 40,000 flags on the graves of veterans. The little boy was adorable and proud. But Trump couldn’t help using his inspiring example to take a dig at black NFL players who have protested police brutality by taking a knee during the national anthem. “Preston's reverence for those who have served our nation reminds us … why we proudly stand for the national anthem,” Trump said.  Likewise, on immigration, Trump talked as if he was proposing a true compromise even as he outlined a hardline position that would require curbs in the number of legal immigrants and restrictions on what he calls “chain migration” in exchange for a pathway to citizenship for the “dreamers.”  Conservatives loved it, and liberals groaned. It highlighted the extent to which Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protects the “dreamers,” has split the country.  Consider this response from the former grand wizard of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan:  -- In a speech covered with the nationalistic fingerprints of domestic policy adviser Stephen Miller, Trump went on to talk about, “All of us, together, as one team, one people and one American family.”  The Washington Post’s Editorial Board poses this rhetorical question in response, “Have a president’s words ever rung more hollow?”  “It was a campaign event — literally,” adds columnist Dana Milbank. “His campaign offered to display supporters’ names on the Official Donald J. Trump for President livestream of the address — if they contributed $35 or more. … Trump was still in the first minute of his speech — 72 words from the start — when he belted out his campaign slogan, ‘Make America Great Again.’ … It was the first of several cultural wedges Trump would drive through the chamber over the next hour — pitting immigrants against ‘Americans,’ trumpeting his support for the Second Amendment but no other, and reviving racially charged disputes he ignited over the past year.”  -- Trump has so poisoned the well that Democrats, except for red state senators who are in cycle, don’t even really want to work with him on the areas where he did extend olive branches, such as spending $1.5 trillion on infrastructure, creating paid family leave, cutting prescription drug prices and easing prisoner reentry into society.  -- A central theme of the speech was Trump’s ongoing bid to eviscerate the Obama legacy.  The president announced that, just before taking the stage, he had signed an order to rescind a directive from Obama to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He said he will keep the facility open indefinitely and may send new terrorism suspects there for the first time in a decade.  He also said he repealed the centerpiece of “disastrous Obamacare” and declared that “the era of economic surrender” is over.  On his way out of the chamber, Trump said “100 percent” when asked if the classified “memo” written by Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) should be released. “Oh yeah, don't worry,” the president told Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.).  Many professionals in the national security firmament worry that this partisan document, drafted by GOP staffers to challenge the integrity of the investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election, could compromise sources and methods and further politicize the nation’s intelligence-gathering apparatus.  Every president since Reagan has worked to reduce the size of the U.S. nuclear arsenal and dreamed of a world free from nuclear weapons. Not Trump. “Perhaps someday in the future there will be a magical moment when the countries of the world will get together to eliminate their nuclear weapons,” he said. “Unfortunately, we are not there yet.” He proposed more spending to “modernize and rebuild our nuclear arsenal.”  -- “Led by Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-Mass.), at least eight current and former Democratic legislators took on one of the stiffest challenges in politics: responding to a State of the Union address in a time of strong economic growth,” Dave Weigel reports. “Kennedy spoke from a technical school in his coastal Massachusetts district, facing a small crowd, framed by an antique car. His colleagues, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) to Rep. Judy Chu (D-Calif.), spread out across TV studios and press clubs to deliver a message that, perhaps, some of the president’s critics would hear.  “For Kennedy, that message was that President Trump and Republicans had offered ‘one false choice after another’ to Americans, ‘turning American life into a zero-sum game’ in which the wealthiest score the most wins. Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), speaking on behalf of the moderate New Democrats, was largely in sync with Kennedy … Sanders, who also delivered a rebuttal to Trump last year, went further by saying that the president was papering over the real problems in the economy.  “The debate about ‘identity politics’ that briefly distracted Democrats after 2016 was long forgotten, as Democrats in the Capitol brought immigrants as their special guests, and Virginia state Del. Elizabeth Guzman [in the Spanish-language response] warned that Trump threatened ‘to drag our nation back to a shameful past.’  “The litany grew at the ‘State of Our Union,’ an event at the National Press Club that was a gathering of progressive organizations including Planned Parenthood, Moms Rising and the Women’s March. Three House Democrats, who boycotted the presidential address, shared a stage with activists as they promised to keep standing up to Trump. … On Facebook, former Maryland congresswoman Donna F. Edwards delivered a speech on behalf of the left-wing Working Families Party.”  HOW THE SPEECH IS PLAYING:  -- The Post’s Fact Checker team looks at 18 dubious claims that Trump made during the speech. Many have been fact-checked repeatedly, yet the president persists in using them. Three relate to immigration.  -- Karen Tumulty and Philip Rucker: “Trump calls for unity, pushes GOP agenda in State of the Union speech.”  -- Dan Balz: “A call for unity against a backdrop of controversy and division.”  -- Marc Fisher: “Best behavior: How Trump alters his tone to suit the occasion.”  -- Aaron Blake says “the winners” last night were strength metaphors, Trump’s illusion of unity, Steve Scalise and tax cuts. “The losers” were the truth, brevity, the deep state, bipartisanship and immigration reform.  -- Read a transcript of the speech, annotated by Callum Borchers.  -- Anna Fifield: “The incredible story of the North Korean escapee at the State of the Union.”  -- Robin Givhan: “At the State of the Union, fashion puts women on mute.”  -- Krissah Thompson: “After a month out of view, Melania Trump reemerges for State of the Union.”  -- Vanessa Williams: “NAACP event delivers different view of State of the Union.”  -- Jennifer Rubin: “Trump’s State of the Union: A diatribe against immigrants.”  -- Ed Rogers: “Trump’s State of the Union address was an 8.5.”  -- NPR: “Trump Makes Bipartisan Pitch ... But Also Plays To Base.”  -- Politico: “Trump offers same policies in new bipartisan packaging.”  -- CNN: “Trump pledges to 'make America great again for all Americans.’”  -- CNBC: “Trump's State of the Union speech is the third longest in modern history.”  -- NBC News: “Democrats scoff, boo, groan, glower at Trump’s State of the Union.”  ON THE RIGHT:  -- Weekly Standard: “Trump Mixes Calls for Unity With Divisive Comments on Immigration.”  -- HuffPost: “The Hidden Extremism Of Trump’s State Of The Union.”  -- Slate: “President Trump used people of color as cover for his anti-immigrant policies.”  -- Vox: “Trump has no solutions for America’s big problems.”  -- Mic: “Trump’s first State of the Union is unlikely to change the state of play.”  -- Mother Jones: “Fact Check: Trump Has Done Virtually Nothing to Combat the Opioid Epidemic.”  -- Daily Kos: “One of Trump's biggest SOTU applause lines will be the GOP's biggest stumbling block come November.”  -- Arizona Republic: “Trump puts border wall at the center of State of the Union, but without a length or a cost.”  -- Dallas Morning News: “As Dreamers gather for Trump's State of the Union, GOP hardliner demands arrest of 'illegal aliens.’”  -- San Diego Union-Tribune: “San Diego 'dreamers' feel insulted by State of the Union speech.”  -- Las Vegas Review-Journal: “Las Vegas immigration advocates gather to watch State of the Union.”  -- Philadelphia Inquirer: “State of the Union 2018: Recap, reaction and fact checks from Donald Trump's speech.”  -- Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: “Trump gives backing to Ron Johnson's 'right-to-try' legislation for terminally ill patients.”  -- Las Vegas Review-Journal: “Trump talks economy, immigration in first State of the Union.”  -- Indianapolis Star: “Indiana workers will receive dueling messages during Trump's State of the Union speech.”  -- Kansas City Star: “Sunayana Dumala of Olathe becomes symbol of hope for immigrants at State of the Union.”  WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING:  -- Adult film star Stormy Daniels issued a statement denying any past affair with Trump. “The fact of the matter is that each party to this alleged affair denied its existence in 2006, 2011, 2016, 2017 and now again in 2018,” Daniels’s signed statement reads. “I am not denying this affair because I was paid ‘hush money’ as has been reported in overseas owned tabloids. I am denying it because it never happened.” The statement ends, “I will have no further comment on this matter. … Please feel free to check me out on Instagram at @thestormydaniels.” (Frances Stead Sellers)  -- But a few hours later, during an interview with Jimmy Kimmel, Daniels seemed to cast doubt on the statement, despite confirmation from her representative of its authenticity. Emily Heil reports: “[Kimmel] read the statement aloud and asked her if she had, in fact, signed it. Daniels was cagey from the get-go. ‘I don’t know, did I?’ she parried, ‘It doesn’t look like my signature, does it?’ she added, suggesting she didn’t know where it came from and that it was just another scrap from the Internet, which was rampant with crazy rumors about her. … Daniels managed to give a non-answer answer to Kimmel’s next line of questioning, when he asked her if she had a non-disclosure agreement. … Kimmel then deduced that if she didn’t have a NDA, she could probably say so. ‘You’re so smart, Jimmy,’ Daniels said. So that was a yes, right?”  -- The White House’s original pick for U.S. ambassador to South Korea is no longer expected to be nominated after he privately expressed disagreement with Trump’s North Korea policy. David Nakamura and Anne Gearan report: “Victor D. Cha, an academic who served in the George W. Bush administration, raised his concerns with [NSC officials] over their consideration of a limited strike on the North aimed at sending a message without sparking a wider war — a risky concept known as a ‘bloody nose’ strategy. Cha also objected to the administration’s threats to tear up a bilateral trade deal with Seoul that Trump has called unfair to American companies[.] U.S. officials [formally notified Seoul in December of Trump’s intended nominee], and South Korean officials quickly signed off on Cha … But the nomination never came. A senior administration official confirmed this week that the White House had moved on to other potential candidates.”  -- Timing is everything: Cha pens a Post op-ed today outlining his opposition to a “bloody nose” strike: “I empathize with the hope, espoused by some Trump officials, that a military strike would shock Pyongyang into appreciating U.S. strength, after years of inaction, and force the regime to the denuclearization negotiating table. … Yet, there is a point at which hope must give in to logic. If we believe that Kim is undeterrable without such a strike, how can we also believe that a strike will deter him from responding in kind? … An alternative coercive strategy involves enhanced and sustained U.S., regional and global pressure on Pyongyang to denuclearize. This strategy is likely to deliver the same potential benefits as a limited strike, along with other advantages, without the self-destructive costs.”  -- Meanwhile, a senior American general said he is confident the U.S. military could destroy “most” of North Korea’s nuclear missile infrastructure “if necessary in a favorable scenario.” Paul Sonne reports: “Air Force Gen. Paul J. Selva, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. military could ‘get at most of [Pyongyang’s nuclear missile] infrastructure’ … but he declined to specify the percentage of North Korean missiles U.S. forces could dismantle in the event of any military action . . . 'Remember, missile infrastructure is not just the missiles,' Selva told reporters. 'If you’re the poor sergeant that has to go out and launch the missile, and I blow up your barracks, you’re not available to go do your job.'”  -- The leaders of South Korea and Japan will meet next week and will likely discuss North Korea. Anna Fifield reports: “Progressive South Korean President Moon Jae-in will meet with his conservative Japanese counterpart, Shinzo Abe, for talks at the Winter Olympics site on Feb. 9, the day of the opening ceremony. Until last week, it wasn’t even clear that Abe would attend. But the Trump administration intervened to ask him to go — not least because Vice President Pence will be traveling from Tokyo to PyeongChang for the opening ceremony. The White House ‘strongly urged’ Abe to attend the ceremony[.]”  -- Top Justice Department officials made a last-ditch appeal to the White House on Monday night to halt the release of a GOP memo alleging abuses by the FBI. Josh Dawsey and Devlin Barrett report: “Shortly before the House Intelligence Committee voted to make the document public, [Rod Rosenstein] warned [White House Chief of Staff John] Kelly that the four-page memo prepared by House Republicans could jeopardize classified information and implored the president to reconsider his support for making it public[.] Rosenstein was joined in the meeting at the White House by FBI Director Christopher A. Wray. Rosenstein, who is supervising [Robert Mueller’s investigation], said the Department of Justice was not convinced the memo accurately describes its investigative practices. He said making the document public could set a dangerous precedent … While Wray also expressed opposition to the memo’s release, Rosenstein did much of the talking[.] [Jeff Sessions] was not present at the meeting.”  “In response, Kelly told Rosenstein and Wray that the president was still inclined to release the memo but the White House would go through a review led by the National Security Council and the White House Counsel’s Office … Rosenstein’s urgent push to head off the disclosure of the classified memo came after Kelly privately relayed to Sessions last week that Trump wants to see the document come out[.]”  -- As he was leaving the Capitol last night, Trump told a Republican congressman he will “100 percent” allow the memo's release. Karoun Demirjian reports: “Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.) approached Trump as he exited the House chamber following the State the Union address, and asked him to ‘release the memo.’ ‘Don’t worry, 100 percent,’ Trump responded, with a wave of his hand. The exchange was caught by television cameras filming the president after he delivered the address.”  -- DOJ's inspector general has been focused for “months” on deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe’s role in the final stretch of the 2016 election, and why he appeared not to act for several weeks on a request to examine a batch of Clinton-related emails found on Anthony Weiner’s laptop. Devlin Barrett and Karoun Demirjian report: “The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has been asking witnesses why FBI leadership seemed unwilling to move forward on the examination of emails [until] late October — about three weeks after first being alerted to the issue … A key question of the internal investigation is whether McCabe or anyone else at the FBI wanted to avoid taking action on the laptop findings until after the Nov. 8 election, these people said. It is unclear whether the inspector general has reached any conclusions on that point.  In late September, FBI agents in New York were investigating Weiner’s laptop when they discovered the emails, and McCabe was aware of the matter “by late September or early October at the latest,” our colleagues report. “The agents on the Weiner case wanted to talk to the Clinton email investigators and see whether the messages were potentially important. … McCabe’s defenders in law enforcement say that there was nothing nefarious going on — officials were pursuing a careful process of determining whether the emails might be relevant, and that took time. Other law enforcement officials, however, have said they are concerned that the issue seemed to die for a period of time at McCabe’s desk, without explanation.”  -- Trump may not have considered that McCabe could be a bigger headache for him outside the FBI than he was inside of it (see James Comey). The Fix’s Callum Borchers writes: “When Trump cut Comey loose in May, Comey promptly orchestrated the leak of his personal notes from a February meeting with the president. According to the notes … Trump expressed to Comey his desire for the FBI to drop an investigation into [Michael Flynn]. Comey later testified … that he ‘thought [the leak] might prompt the appointment of a special counsel.’ Now, of course, there is a special counsel[.] We don't know whether McCabe possesses anything as explosive as the Comey notes — or whether he would provide any information to the press — but his departure from the FBI is not without risk to Trump."  --  Memo fallout: Paul Ryan defended House Intel Chair Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), whose staffers penned the memo and whose committee voted to release it on party lines. But the speaker warned GOP lawmakers against using it to discredit Robert Mueller’s investigation. Karoun Demirjian reports: “Ryan [said Nunes] was following a well-established process when the committee voted Monday to release a GOP-drafted memo … Ryan suggested to reporters Tuesday that ‘there may have been malfeasance at the FBI by certain individuals,’ citing that as one of several reasons Republicans want ‘all of this information’ contained in the memo ‘to come out.’”  -- The Fix’s Philip Bump created a timeline of the events leading up to Monday's partisan vote to #Releasethememo — showing how congressional Republicans seem to have coopted the arguments of Trump and his allies.  -- Nunes refused to say whether he coordinated with the White House as Republicans on his staff wrote the memo. Betsy Woodruff and Spencer Ackerman report: “During Monday’s contentious closed-door committee meeting, Rep. Mike Quigley, a Democrat, asked Nunes point-blank if his staffers had been talking with the White House as they compiled [the memo] … According to sources familiar with the exchange, Nunes made a few comments that didn’t answer the question before finally responding, ‘I’m not answering.’ Quigley’s question harked back to Nunes’ history of surreptitiously working with the White House to deflect from the myriad inquiries into possible coordination between Trump’s associates and the Kremlin.”  -- The Trump administration admitted it cribbed from Forbes Magazine to create its report on Russian oligarchs who could be subject to U.S. sanctions for their alleged proximity to the Kremlin. BuzzFeed News’s John Hudson reports: “The revelation is likely to invite criticisms of the thoroughness of the Treasury Department’s report and reinforce the notion that the list is primarily a who’s who of the Russian elite rather than an official accounting of Kremlin-linked political corruption … Almost all of the 96 oligarchs listed in the government-issued report, who each have a net worth of $1 billion or more, appear in the Forbes ranking. When asked if there is ‘any truth to the criticisms that the Treasury list was inspired or derived in some way from the Forbes list,’ a Treasury spokesperson said ‘yes.’” Former Treasury officials said that while the list includes friends of [Vladimir] Putin, it also includes foes — such as brothers Aleksey and Dimitriy Ananyev, who’ve had their businesses seized in recent years.  -- The Justice Department has reportedly given Mueller internal documents that cover Jeff Sessions’s proposed resignation and Michael Flynn’s firing. (ABC News’s Mike Levine)  -- Mueller wants to talk to Mark Corallo, the former spokesman for Trump’s legal team. The Wall Street Journal’s Rebecca Ballhaus reports: “Mr. Corallo’s resignation [in July] followed the revelation that Donald Trump Jr. … had arranged a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016 between a Russian lawyer linked to the Kremlin and top campaign aides[.] … Mr. Corallo had privately expressed frustration over the administration’s handling of reports about that meeting[.]”  -- Hillary Clinton expressed regret about retaining a 2008 campaign adviser who was accused of repeated sexual harassment. John Wagner reports: “In a lengthy Facebook post, the Democrat sought to explain her decision to deliver a less severe punishment to Burns Strider, who was her faith adviser, despite a recommendation from her campaign manager that Strider be fired. ‘I very much understand the question I’m being asked as to why I let an employee on my 2008 campaign keep his job despite his inappropriate workplace behavior,’ Clinton wrote. ‘The short answer is this: If I had it to do again, I wouldn’t.’ … Clinton said on Facebook that the woman’s complaint was taken seriously and that she decided on a more lenient punishment, which included demoting Strider, docking his pay and separating him from the woman[.]”  Clinton also took a shot at the New York Times, who broke the story on Strider: “‘At the time, I believed the punishment I imposed was severe and fit the offense,’ she said [in her Facebook post]. ‘Indeed, while we are revisiting whether my decision from a decade ago was harsh enough, many employers would be well served to take actions at least as severe when confronted with problems now — including the very media outlet that broke this story.’ She was referring to the case of Glenn Thrush, a former White House reporter at the New York Times who served a suspension after an investigation into allegations that he had behaved inappropriately toward female colleagues. … ‘A decade from now, that decision may not look as tough as it feels today,’ Clinton wrote.”  -- Chicago businessman Todd Ricketts is expected to become Republican National Committee finance chair after casino mogul Steve Wynn was forced to resign amid accusations of sexual misconduct. Robert Costa and Josh Dawsey report: “A formal vote was expected to happen Tuesday. Ricketts is working closely with the White House and RNC leaders on the appointment[.] … Ricketts, who last year was Trump’s pick to be deputy secretary of the Commerce Department, withdrew over a dispute with the Office of Government Ethics, citing his financial portfolio as too difficult to disentangle.”  During the early stages of 2016, Ricketts was a key financial backer of Scott Walker's presidential bid. That February, Trump blasted some of his family members who were funding super PACs aimed at stopping him from securing the GOP nomination. “I hear the Rickets family, who own the Chicago Cubs, are secretly spending $'s against me,” he tweeted. “They better be careful, they have a lot to hide!”  -- The Nevada Gaming Control Board has opened an investigation into Wynn. (CNBC)  -- Wynn has already lost hundreds of millions of dollars due to falling stock prices since the accusations arose. CNN’s Chris Isidore and Nathaniel Meyersohn report: “According to the most recent filings, Wynn owns 12.1 million shares of the company's stock through a family trust he controls. That's 11.8% of the shares outstanding. So when the stock fell 10% on Friday on this report, his estimated net worth dropped by $246 million, or roughly a quarter-billion dollars. Monday's drop in share price added $204 million to his paper losses, bringing the total decline in his net worth to $450 million. He's made back $23.5 million as the stock inched up 1.2% Tuesday.”  -- Former Michigan governor John Engler (R) is this morning expected to be named interim president of Michigan State University. The school’s former president was forced to step aside amid fallout from the Larry Nassar sexual-abuse scandal. (Susan Svrluga)  -- Trump’s top health official, Brenda Fitzgerald, bought shares in a tobacco company one month after being appointed as director of the CDC, the agency tasked with preventing tobacco use and antismoking efforts. Politico’s Sarah Karlin-Smith and Brianna Ehley report: “The stock was one of about a dozen new investments that [Fitzgerald] made after she took over the agency’s top job … Fitzgerald has since come under Congressional scrutiny for slow walking divestment from older holdings that government officials said posed potential conflicts of interest. Buying shares of tobacco companies raises even more flags than Fitzgerald’s trading in drug and food companies because it stands in such stark contrast to CDC’s mission . . . Critics say her trading behavior broke with ethical norms for public health officials and was, at best, sloppy. At worst, they say, it was legally problematic if she didn't recuse herself from government activities that could have affected her investments.”  -- In a 2016 radio interview, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said having Trump in the White House “would be more abusive to the constitution than Barack Obama — and that’s saying a lot.” Brady Dennis and Juliet Eilperin report: “The radio interview [took place when] Pruitt — then Oklahoma’s attorney general — was serving as a policy adviser to [Jeb Bush]. Asked whether he supported Trump as a presidential candidate, Pruitt replied, ‘No.’ Pruitt added that he feared Trump, if elected would ‘use executive power to confront Congress in a way that is truly unconstitutional.’ He also agreed with [the host’s] description of Trump as ‘dangerous’ and ‘a bully.’” Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) pressed Pruitt on the comments Tuesday. Asked if he recalled the statements, Pruitt said, “I don’t, senator. And I don’t echo that today at all.” “I bet not,” Whitehouse responded.  Minutes later, Pruitt sent out a statement lavishing praise on his boss: “After meeting him, and now having the honor of working for him, it is abundantly clear that President Trump is the most consequential leader of our time,” Pruitt said in the statement. “No one has done more to advance the rule of law than President Trump. The President has liberated our country from the political class and given America back to the people.”  -- Noncitizens will not be hired as workers for the 2020 Census. Tara Bahrampour reports: “In recent decennial counts, door-to-door census takers could be legal permanent residents or non-citizens with a work visa and a bilingual skill that no available citizen possessed. Such employees made up a tiny percentage of hires in the last count, but have been seen as crucial to reaching hard-to-count immigrant communities whose members might not understand or trust the process, and where response rates are typically lower than the general population. … However, in a meeting Tuesday, Census staff were told that non-citizens would not be hired[.] … Among bureau staff the announcement was seen as a political move, the source said, adding, ‘The feeling was this is going to happen, and yes, it’s because of the administration.’”  THE REST OF THE AGENDA:  -- House Republicans voiced skepticism and opposition to Trump’s immigration proposal — a warning sign of the tough path ahead for any deal. Erica Werner and Ed O'Keefe report: “The concerns came from a range of lawmakers, not just immigration hard-liners, just hours before Trump’s State of the Union address … In a sign the issue is roiling both parties, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus — comprised entirely of Democrats — complained directly to [Sen. Chuck Schumer] (D-N.Y.) Tuesday about his one-on-one talks with Trump over the price of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. … Democrats were outraged about the White House proposal because it would severely limit legal immigration by family members of citizens and others — but opposition from the right threatens to leave the plan with scant support from any quarter.”  -- No immigration on the menu, however: Congressional Republicans are slated to focus on the tough midterm environment at their retreat in West Virginia this weekend. Politico’s Burgess Everett and Heather Caygle report: “The headlining events will be a two-hour dinner with [Vice President] Pence on Wednesday and two-hour lunch with Trump on Thursday. GOP lawmakers will also hear about Republicans' ‘Big Vision’ for 2018 from [Mitch McConnell] and [Ryan] on Wednesday afternoon, as well as receive a briefing from pollster David Winston and [Kevin McCarthy] on how to sell the new tax law during the mid-term campaigns. On Thursday, Republicans will hold a working breakfast with [Rex Tillerson and Jim Mattis], then pivot to a joint session on infrastructure with committee leaders … Other sessions will focus on workforce development and government reform before a reception and dinner with [Nikki Haley]. And while the topic of immigration is sure to come up, there is no specific item on the schedule devoted to the approaching deadline on the expiring [DACA] program.”  -- Jeff Sessions vowed a “surge” of DEA agents look into opioid over-prescribers. Sari Horwitz and Scott Higham report: “To intensify the fight against what is called ‘prescription drug diversion,’ the DEA will examine data from approximately 80 million reports it collects every year from prescription drug manufacturers and distributors, Sessions said.”  Trump's former chief of staff and press secretary offered extensive praise:  So did his former press secretary:  The chairman of the House Freedom Caucus highlighted one of Trump's invited guests:  Two Democratic senators reacted to Trump's remarks with drastically different tones:  A liberal commentator took this jab at the president:  Former congressman John Dingell (D-Mich.) said the speech was loooong:  Many noted that the first lady wore white, the color of the anti-Trump “resistance” movement. From a former Justice Department spokesman:  From Obama's former deputy chief of staff:  Members of the Congressional Black Caucus held a quiet protest of Trump's “shithole” comments:  This still of the CBC also made the rounds:  Sen. John Neely Kennedy (R-La.) continues to boost his populist street cred ahead of a potential run for governor:  Some other reaction from around the Twitterverse:  A Guardian reporter saw this from Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-Tex.):  The response by Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-Mass.) was blasted by the RNC. From the communications director of Organizing for Action:  But Breitbart zeroed in on another detail:  And Samantha Bee summed up all five of Democrats' State of the Union responses:  -- Politico, “The demise of one of the best gigs in Congress,” by John Bresnahan: “Relinquishing the chairmanship of the House Appropriations Committee once would have been an unthinkable surrender of congressional power. Rodney Frelinghuysen, with his decision this week to do exactly that, showed just how much cachet the role of committee chair has lost. Hemmed in by term limits, a domineering party leadership, bitter partisan feuds and a GOP base that automatically loathes anyone in power, seven Republican committee chairs have decided to leave office at the end of this Congress, a remarkable level of turnover by any measure. Another committee chair, Rep. Diane Black of Tennessee, is running for governor and will give up her gavel at the Budget Committee (the panel has had three chairs this Congress alone.) And Rep. Jason Chaffetz … quit Congress last year to become a regular on Fox News. While term limits are behind most of the departures …. it’s also true that being a committee chair has lost a lot of its allure.” “Times aren’t like they used to be,” Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) said. “Yeah, leadership needs to give direction, but the committee chairmen aren’t what they used to be.”  -- The Atlantic, “How the Swamp Drained Trump,” by McKay Coppins: “Indeed, while Trump’s ‘populism’ has manifested itself primarily in performative spasms of culture war, the most substantive policy victories of his first year in office have gone to the donor-class conservatism of Paul Ryan and his fellow swamp creatures in the congressional leadership. As it turns out, all they had to do was ask nicely. It is perhaps the central irony of the Donald Trump story: The Queens-born billionaire who could never win the respect of the taunting insiders on the other side of the river led a bitter revenge march to the White House, ranting and raving and railing against the ‘haters’ — and then giving them what they wanted the moment they said please.”  Trump has a meeting with Pence, Rex Tillerson and Jim Mattis followed by a “tax reform meeting with American workers.” He will also meet with Steve Mnuchin in the afternoon.  NEWS YOU CAN USE IF YOU LIVE IN D.C.:  -- District residents will see some sun and slightly warmer temperatures today. The Capital Weather Gang forecasts: “High pressure keeps us dry and partly sunny today. Temperatures rise into and through the 20s this morning with light winds. Afternoon highs should manage the upper 30s to low 40s[.]”  -- Kirk Cousins appears to be leaving Washington. Mark Maske reports: “The Redskins’ stunning trade with the Kansas City Chiefs for quarterback Alex Smith, the NFL’s top-rated passer this season, brought an unofficial end Tuesday to Cousins’s tenure in Washington. He presumably will be permitted to leave the Redskins via unrestricted free agency in March, unencumbered by a franchise- or transition-player tag, and shop his services to a group of quarterback-needy teams[.]”  -- Trump signed a bill recognizing six Native American tribes in Virginia, making them eligible for federal funding. (Jenna Portnoy)  -- Paul Schwartzman profiles venture capitalist Mark Ein, who recently bought Washington City Paper: “A pillar of Washington’s gilded set, Ein resides in a palatial estate in suburban McLean, Va., twice contributed to the campaigns of President George W. Bush, and has been known to praise President Trump and his family — at least before they took over the White House. Asked if he supports marijuana legalization, an issue dear to many City Paper readers, Ein, 53, volunteers nothing more than that he has never smoked pot. He also acknowledges that he is not steeped in City Paper lore, and he struggles to recall an article that left a lasting impression.”  Trevor Noah and Stephen Colbert both taped their shows live to respond to Trump's State of the Union:  Rep. John Delaney (D-Md.) released an ad for the 2020 Democratic primaries:  Tokyo held its first ever North Korean missile drill:  And an Air Force sergeant was suspended for posting a rant about black women in her unit:
	What Trump’s address sounded like in eight American living rooms	In New Jersey, Michigan, Denver and Phoenix, people listening compare the president’s speech to what they see in the United States.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Images/SotuAmerica5.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/what-trumps-address-sounded-like-in-eight-american-living-rooms/2018/01/31/d8890758-0536-11e8-8777-2a059f168dd2_story.html	The Washington Post	Across the United States on Tuesday night, millions of Americans listened to a rosy assessment of the nation provided by a historically unpopular and polarizing president. Throughout the speech, Trump repeatedly called for unity and declared that “there has never been a better time to start living the American Dream.” But his message was delivered to a nation with many different — and often opposing — perspectives on what that dream is.  In Milwaukee, a retired factory worker sipping coffee in his burgundy recliner cheered as President Trump promised in his State of the Union address to build new roads, bridges, waterways and other infrastructure improvements.  In New Jersey, a Democrat-turned-Trump-voter whose 26-year-old son died of a heroin overdose in 2010 wondered why the president didn’t provide a detailed plan to address the opioid crisis that’s killing thousands each year.  In Phoenix, a mother of six from Mexico listened to Trump and grew increasingly worried about the future of her two oldest daughters, who were granted temporary legal status through a program started by the Obama administration.  And in Denver, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan wondered why the president continues to send more and more troops into the Middle East to fight terrorism without a clear plan of action.  Here’s what happened in eight American living rooms as Trump spoke:  Trump: “We have gone forward with a clear vision and a righteous mission — to make America great again for all Americans.”  As Trump declared his first year in office a triumph, Kandice Webber and her wife were eating dinner and watching the speech on the gray couch in their home in Houston’s East Downtown neighborhood.  Webber dropped her fork in disgust when Trump noted that African American unemployment is at “the lowest rate ever recorded,” seeming to take credit for a downward trend that started in 2011.  When he labeled the recent Republican tax cuts “tremendous relief,” she relabeled it “the biggest tax heist in American history.” When he recognized the “Cajun Navy” of volunteers who used their fishing boats to rescue people during Hurricane Harvey, Webber asked why the president didn’t also acknowledge Black Lives Matter activists who were volunteering at shelters, providing medical care, coordinating clothing drives and mucking houses. And when Trump proclaimed that he wants “every citizen to be proud of this land that we love,” she told him: “So resign.”  Webber’s America is not Trump’s America. Her America is a place where marriages like hers — a 42-year-old African American woman married to a 29-year-old redheaded woman — are respected and celebrated. Webber, a registered nurse, said she wants an America where people can get affordable medical care, where police officers stop shooting innocent people and where human beings aren’t labeled as “illegal” because of their immigration status. She doesn’t like what’s happening to her country.  “People are a whole lot more okay with being racist than they were before,” she said. “This has always been America. America just came out of the closet is what happened.”  Tory and TaNisha Coats sat closely together on the plush beige love seat in their home in this predominantly African American suburb east of Cleveland. Assorted relatives filled the room, which TaNisha Coats had decorated for the occasion, hanging a row of tiny American flags over the wall-mounted television and lighting red votive candles.  Tory Coats, a 40-year-old case manager who works with at-risk children, describes himself as a conservative entrepreneur — and he seriously considered voting for Trump because of his business background. But Coats couldn’t get past Trump’s divisive rhetoric.  “The Democrats take [black] voters for granted, [saying] ‘I know you’re not going to vote for Trump,’ ” Coats said. “And they’re right; I’m not. But I’m not so committed to the Democratic Party. I can be persuaded, but [Trump] could care less about my vote.”  The couple said they are raising their three children — ages 18, 16 and 12 — to be entrepreneurial leaders, not simply employees. And so they were surprised that Trump’s featured guests included the white owners of an Ohio manufacturing company and one of their black employees.  “Corey is an all-American worker,” Trump said, recognizing the welder. “He supported himself through high school, lost his job during the 2008 recession and was later . . . trained to become a welder.”  As those in the chamber stood to applaud, the Coatses were uncomfortable, wondering why the White House had not found an African American business owner to honor.  “They’re giving a standing ovation to an African American who works for Caucasian bosses,” said TaNisha Coats, 39, who works for a nonprofit health-care organization as a patient navigator.  Trump: “We salute our flag... we put our hands on our hearts for the pledge of allegiance and ... we proudly stand for the national anthem.”  Jen Burch, 30, voted for Trump because she considered him the lesser of two evils — but she commends his approach to the military and service members.  “You have to say, that’s something Trump does better than any of the other candidates,” said Burch, a registered Republican who served six and a half years in the Air Force, achieving the rank of staff sergeant. “He supports not just the military, but firefighters and other public service groups, first responders.”  Burch deployed in 2010 to Kandahar, Afghanistan, where she spent seven months as a volunteer medic. In her studio apartment in downtown Denver, she keeps a short-billed camouflage hat that she wore every day in Afghanistan and had signed by comedian Robin Williams, whom she met as part of a USO tour. When she returned from duty, Burch struggled with PTSD and depression. She has advocated for fellow veterans through the Colorado Veterans Project.  When Trump on Tuesday night promised to defeat the Islamic State terrorist group, Burch was disappointed he didn’t say more about how that would happen.  This war, she said, is “going to keep going until we get a better plan.”  Throughout the speech, Trump would often start a sentence and Jim Mead, from the comfort of his living room chair, would rush to finish it for him. While the president refrained from mocking his rivals, Mead went ahead and did it for him. And when the president called for massive increases in infrastructure spending, Mead was ecstatic.  “I was waiting for him to say that,” said Mead, 67, who is retired from a local factory where he worked on the floor and in the human resources department. “That has got to be addressed! The roads and bridges and airports here need so much work, and we’re giving billions upon billions to foreign aid. It doesn’t make any sense.”  The cameras then panned across the House chamber to the Democrats, who sat grimly as Republicans stood and cheered.  “These guys look like they’re going to fall over dead!” said Mead. “It just kills me. They’re the ones who support jobs and they don’t support a thing he says. I don’t get it.”  Minutes later, Trump touted a proposal to steer more federal education funding to technical and vocational schools.  Mead — wearing a black leather motorcycle vest over a black shirt and jeans, his arms sleeved in decades-old tattoos — grew up in a union Democratic household. He quit high school to work on the Harley Davidson assembly line in 1968, making $4 an hour, he said. He then worked for 34 years at another manufacturing company where he made $21 an hour until 2006, when the plant closed and he retired. It was a career that allowed him and his wife, Kitty Mead, to buy their house and pay their daughter’s way through the University of Wisconsin, sparing her from having to take out student loans.  Mead has been a Republican ever since he voted for Ronald Reagan, and he fell for Trump after seeing him at two rallies. One year in, Mead said Trump “is doing extremely well.”  “That’s right, man!” Mead shouted at the president halfway through the speech. “He talks like a boss. I like that. He’s so confident and pro-American. I haven’t heard a guy as pro-American since Ronald Reagan.”  As President Trump recounted the brutal murder of two young girls on Long Island at the hands of gang members who “took advantage of glaring loopholes in our laws to enter the country as unaccompanied alien minors,” Marina Rivera shook her head and held one of her daughters.  She continued to shake her head as the president declared that “the United States is a compassionate nation” and then ran through his plan to change the immigration system. The president said that it is his “sacred duty . . . to defend Americans, to protect their safety, their families, their communities and their right to the American Dream, because Americans are dreamers, too.”  Trump was borrowing a term — “dreamer” — that has particular meaning for Rivera and her family.  Rivera and her husband, Juan Bueno, came to the United States from Mexico City in 2003, paying a smuggler to sneak them and their two young daughters over the border.Over the years, the couple has worked at a carwash, cleaned office buildings and done landscaping. They had four more children, who are all U.S. citizens.  Their daughters who are now 21 and 16 were both given temporary legal immigration status under the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program for young undocumented immigrants known as “dreamers.”  “If they take my DACA away, I’ll be nothing,” said Jessica, 21, who is trained as a dental assistant.  Berenice, 16, was in class at her high school when the Trump administration announced in September that he was rescinding DACA. She immediately texted her mother. When she got home that day, her older sister was crying.  “They have my dad’s information. They know where he works. They have my mom’s information,” she said. “I’m afraid I’ll come home from school one day and I’ll never see my dad again.”  Trump proposed putting 1.8 million “dreamers” on a path to citizenship, though the process would take up to 12 years.  “Twelve years sounds like such a long time,” said Marina Rivera. “The dreamers are the ones building this country, making this country grow. They are Americans.”  Trump: “Under the current broken system, a single immigrant can bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives.”  When Trump pledged to end “chain migration,” a system under which he said an immigrant can “bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives,” Fouad Berry and his relatives spoke up to defend the practice.  “We would never have been here” without the United States’ family migration policies, said Berry, 55, who came to the United States from Lebanon when he was 9 and now owns several Little Caesars pizza restaurants. He said his father “couldn’t write or read.”  “It’s sad that people are here now, and they want to end chain migration, and the only reason they’re here is because of it,” said Berry, who has four daughters and one son.  His wife, Nancy, who moved to the United States from Jerusalem, chimed in: “I came here through my uncle,” she said.  “And we came through my aunt,” Fouad Berry said, adding later: “I don’t know where we would be if it wasn’t for chain migration.”  It’s not just their family, they added, saying that for generations, families have traveled to the United States together. But everything has changed now that Trump is president.  Berry, who used to be a Republican but has voted for Democrats in the last several presidential elections, said his 22-year-old daughter works in neonatal care. She’s had parents see her headscarf and ask that she not care for their baby. He worries about how a rising tide of Islamophobia could affect the safety of their children.  “Even in Dearborn, we just worry much more than we worried before,” he said, referring to the Detroit suburb that’s home to a large Arab and Muslim population. “That’s for sure.”  Trump: “It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century.”  Each time Trump announced another pillar of his immigration plan, Esther Valdés, her three older sisters and their husbands cheered as if they were watching the final minutes of a football game.  As Trump publicly thanked former Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agent CJ Martinez for his bravery, Valdés echoed the sentiment and then somberly added: “Somebody is going to say he’s a traitor to his race.”  It’s an attack that she knows well as a Hispanic Trump supporter who works as an immigration attorney.  “But never to my face,” said Valdés, 44, a longtime Republican who lives outside of downtown San Diego and has a daughter in college. “It’s always backhanded commentary with the suggestion that I’m somehow disloyal to my race or to my profession. It’s never hurtful because it’s completely untruthful. My first allegiance is to my country.”  Valdés was born in the United States, but within days of her birth, she went to live in Mexico with her parents and three older sisters, who did not have U.S. residency. The family stayed in Mexico for four years until her family completed the process to become lawful permanent residents.  “That’s what my family did. We availed ourselves of the procedures that reigned at the time for admission and inspection — and waited,” she said.  As Trump promised Tuesday night to send more reinforcements to confront MS-13 gang members, Valdés chimed in: “Send them home! Send them to jail!” Her sister chanted: “Build that wall! Build that wall!”  Later, as Trump was wrapping up, Valdés led her relatives in one more chant: “USA! USA! USA!”  Trump: “We must get tougher on drug dealers and pushers.”  Patty DiRenzo watched the State of the Union address in her living room along with her ex-husband, Sal Marchese, and Sal’s current wife, Monica Marchese. The walls were adorned with photos of her late son, Salvatore J. Marchese, who died of a heroin overdose in 2010 when he was 26. Sleeping upstairs was her 8-year-old grandson, who was just 18 months old when his father died.  The two women both voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, but Sal Marchese voted for Trump — even though he’s a registered Democrat who twice voted for Barack Obama.  “I wanted stimulation in the economy that would put people to work,” said Marchese, 58, who runs a heating, ventilation and air-conditioning company. “But the biggest thing was that I wanted a change from everyday politics.”  A year into the Trump administration, he looks at his retirement account and stands by his decision.  Everyone in the room agreed that the federal government could be doing more to help fight opioid addiction. More than 42,000 people fatally overdosed on opioids in 2016, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and about 2,000 of those deaths occurred in New Jersey. The family was heartened when Trump last year called the opioid crisis “a serious problem the likes of which we have never had.”  DiRenzo, 58, was thrilled to see several lawmakers wearing purple ribbons aimed at bringing awareness to opioid addiction — but she was disappointed by Trump’s brief comments on the crisis.  “I came in with a little bit of hope, but now I just want to cry,” DiRenzo said. “He didn’t acknowledge drug addiction as a disease, and he doesn’t have any kind of plan. . . . He’s always putting people who are struggling down.”  She said Trump should have invited a recovering addict or someone with firsthand experience with addiction to sit in the gallery.  “Sal, how did you feel about that?” DiRenzo asked her ex-husband as she turned away from the television.  “I thought he would say more,” Sal Marchese responded stoically. “He didn’t address the crisis.”  Trump’s call for unity slams into the reality of Washington’s divisions
	President Trump talked tough on North Korea in the State of the Union. Here’s where things stand.	Trump's rhetoric may be reducing U.S. influence.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/Wires/Images/2018-01-19/AP/Trump_One_Year_The_View_From_Overseas_66246-cb244.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2018/01/31/president-trump-talked-tough-on-north-korea-in-the-state-of-the-union-heres-where-things-stand/	The Washington Post	In the hours before President Trump’s State of the Union address last night, we learned that the president’s expected nominee for ambassador to South Korea, Victor Cha, will not be nominated — apparently because he didn’t agree with White House attitudes that a limited military strike against North Korea would blunt the threat from its nuclear program. In his address to Congress, Trump didn’t include his usual threatening rhetoric, focusing instead on the brutality of the North Korean regime. But he also stated that “complacency and concessions only invite aggression and provocation.”  Here at the Monkey Cage, we’ve looked at the U.S.-North Korea standoff from many perspectives — some more optimistic, others less so. Here are four takeaways from these posts to make sense of where things stand:  1. No matter what Trump says, there are powerful constraints limiting — but not eliminating — the chance of conflict.  In early January, Michael Horowitz and I argued at the Monkey Cage that structural constraints rein in the odds of war on the Korean Peninsula. Although both of us have published research on how leaders can influence the outbreak and conduct of war, we noted that in the case of North Korea, factors that leaders cannot realistically change or avoid — such as geography and military capabilities — make the prospect of war so unappealing that leaders have incentives to try to deter the other side, rather than escalate.  Picking up this theme, Dan Reiter argued this month that the historical record shows preemptive wars are rare. Although the “powder keg” image is powerful, most dangerous crises — think nuclear-era standoffs like the Berlin crisis or the Cuban missile crisis — do not escalate to war. As Reiter explained, most of the time, “preemptive wars just aren’t that tempting.”  What about the risk of miscalculation? As Or Rabinowitz outlined last September, there are many paths to a miscalculation in the U.S.-North Korea standoff. But as Reiter noted, states — including North and South Korea — are also pretty good at preventing lower-level provocations from escalating to war through miscalculation.  Of course, the risk of war with North Korea is not zero, and Trump may yet be the driver of it. The news last night that Cha, long thought to be the Trump administration’s pick for ambassador to South Korea, would not be nominated partly because of  disagreement over limited strikes against North Korea, may suggest that those who are not prepared to strike are not welcome in the Trump administration.  Even more remarkable was Cha’s op-ed outlining his concerns. Some have suggested that this unusual move indicates how seriously the administration has been considering a strike. And as I wrote not long after Trump’s election, my research shows that advisers’ statements can send signals that affect how policies are perceived by others in the bureaucracy, by Congress and by the public. But, ultimately, decisions for war lie with the president.  2. If war does occur, casualties are likely to be high.  If war does come, Tanisha Fazal’s research on developments in military medicine shows it will be particularly costly in human terms.  As Fazal explained, advances in military medicine depend crucially on airlifting soldiers off the battlefield to trauma centers, to prevent wounds from being fatal. In a Korean war, the United States might at least temporarily lose control of the skies, undermining its ability to airlift the wounded and increasing the number of dead.  3. Even if there is no war, Trump’s rhetoric may have consequences for U.S. alliances in Asia.  In August, after Trump’s comments about how North Korea would face “fire and fury like the world has never seen,” Mira Rapp-Hooper explained how Trump’s threatening rhetoric damaged the U.S.-South Korean alliance — by undermining South Korea’s trust in the United States.  In her roundup after Trump’s Asia trip in November, Rapp-Hooper also noted that the president’s efforts at reassurance go only so far. Since then, renewed diplomacy and small signs of cooperation between North and South Korea — particularly over the upcoming Winter Olympics — suggest that South Korea may be taking matters into its own hands.  But the military alliance between the United States and South Korea continues on a day-to-day level, as Oriana Mastro and Arzan Tarapore wrote this month, after a research trip to Seoul. They found that military cooperation between the United States and South Korea is still robust, aided by long-standing institutions and routines.  At the political level, however, Mastro and Tarapore reported far less-stable coordination — which is where Trump’s threats come in. By threatening a war that South Korea understandably wants to avoid, Trump risks allowing North Korea to drive a wedge between the United States and its longtime South Korean ally.  4. The United States still has imperfect knowledge of what’s going on in North Korea.  Finally, what about what we know about North Korea itself? Alex Bolfrass recently explained that although intelligence estimates of nuclear programs have historically been quite good, states tend to underestimate — rather than exaggerate — a country’s nuclear progress. What’s more, the larger and more complex the program, the harder it is to get good information.  In the case of North Korea, the United States is confronting a state determined to develop an advanced nuclear missile capability. Malfrid Braut-Hegghammer detailed why North Korea succeeded in developing its nuclear program where countries such as Iraq and Libya failed. One reason is that Kim Jong Un consistently made nuclear weapons his top priority. Yes, the speed of North Korea’s success took the international community by surprise, but Braut-Hegghammer concludes that there were good reasons for this success.  What’s next for the U.S.-North Korea standoff?  To some extent, the current standoff looks much as it would have had Hillary Clinton won the 2016 presidential election. A determined North Korea has succeeded in its long-standing goal of developing an advanced nuclear capability. But North Korea still shares a border with China and faces a formidable foe in the United States. If war did break out, it would be particularly costly in human lives. These structural pressures constrain any U.S. or North Korean leader — and may indicate why preemptive wars or miscalculation spirals are historically rare.  That doesn’t mean Trump’s words have no long-term impact. The president’s threats have effects not only on North Korea but also on U.S. allies like South Korea. In fact, in the absence of war, Trump’s rhetoric may ultimately mean that the United States simply has less influence over what happens in North Korea than it otherwise would.
	Trump isn’t benefiting from economic growth. But he’s not unusual.	The honeymoon effect wears off fast.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/Wires/Online/2018-01-31/AP/Images/State_Of_Union_97197.jpg-8448d.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2018/01/31/trump-isnt-benefiting-from-economic-growth-but-hes-not-unusual/	The Washington Post	As President Trump begins his second year in office, observers have noted how unusual it is for a president to be unpopular in the face of a strong economy. Unemployment is low and the stock market is at record levels. And although a strong economy usually gives presidents a boost, Trump did not benefit from the favorable economic winds during his first year in office.  Our research shows, however, that in this respect, Trump is not unusual. To be sure, he is historically unpopular for a president at this point in his term. But the fact that economic growth did not translate into political support during his first year is fairly common — that relationship typically does not kick in until later in a president’s term.  [Why did Republicans become so opposed to immigration? Hint: It’s not because there’s more nativism.]  Presidents often do not benefit from economic growth in their first year  We determined this by looking at the relationship between unemployment and presidential approval over the first 12 months of each presidency, going back to Harry S. Truman. If economic conditions give presidents a bump in their first year, we would expect to see unemployment rates and presidential approval move in tandem — when unemployment goes down, approval goes up (and vice versa).  But in fact, we find no consistent relationship. For some presidents — including Barack Obama, Ronald Reagan and Truman — approval ratings during the first year moved in tandem with the unemployment rate. But we found the opposite pattern for others, including George W. Bush, Jimmy Carter and Lyndon B. Johnson. Trump is also in that category — his approval declined through 2017, even as the number of unemployed Americans also fell.  When we average across all 13 presidents, the correlation — a measure of how strongly two phenomena are connected — between unemployment and approval during the first year is virtually zero. Specifically, the correlation is -0.02, which basically means the two things are unrelated. (If we exclude Trump, it’s about the same, -0.08.)  The honeymoon effect means most presidents become less popular in Year 1  We think there are at least two reasons that presidents do not benefit from economic growth in their first year. The main reason is that the presidential “honeymoon” wears off, leading to a general decline in approval over the first year.  Of the 13 presidents from Truman to Trump, nine, including Trump, saw a decline in approval in their first year. For instance, Trump’s approval rating peaked during his first week in office and has not returned to that level.  A new president often comes into office with an energized base and, at least historically, a modicum of the goodwill offered to a new chief executive, but support for him wanes as he makes hard decisions and faces criticism. This decline is rarely smooth, but it is observable over the year.  Only John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush saw their popularity rise or remain steady during their first year. Those presidents were different in part because of foreign policy crises that prompted a “rally” in presidential popularity. The most dramatic example occurred in 2001, when George W. Bush’s approval surged from 55 percent in August to 90 percent in September after the 9/11 attacks.  [Will Trump’s tariffs help him with his voters?]  The upshot is that when the more typical “honeymoon decay” in the first year coincides with an improving economy, that disrupts the typical relationship between economic conditions and presidential approval. This is exactly what has happened with many presidents, including Trump.  First-year presidents also operate in the shadow of their predecessors  First-year presidents are also less likely to get credit (or blame) for the economy in their first year than they are later in their term. That’s because at least a portion of the public typically holds the previous president responsible for economic conditions.  For example, Obama came into office in the midst of an economic crisis, one that began on George W. Bush’s watch. At the end of Obama’s first year, a Quinnipiac Poll showed that 55 percent of Americans blamed Bush for the state of the economy, while only 20 percent blamed Obama.  Over the course of Trump’s first year, Quinnipiac asked Americans who they believe is responsible for the condition of the economy. Throughout that time, the public consistently assigned responsibility to Obama over Trump. Even by January 2018, nearly a full year after Trump had assumed office, 49 percent said that Obama was more responsible for the economy, while just 40 percent said Trump was.  All of this suggests that presidents typically do not “own” the economy until they’ve been in office for more than a year, making Trump much less unusual than many observers have claimed. Presumably, Trump is hoping that 2018 is the year Americans will give him credit for the economy — unless, of course, it begins to go south.  Mary Stegmaier is an assistant professor in the Truman School of Public Affairs at the University of Missouri. Her research focuses on voting behavior, elections, forecasting and political representation in the United States and abroad.  Helmut Norpoth is a professor of Political Science at Stony Brook University.  He is co-author of The American Voter Revisited (University of Michigan Press, 2008) and a forecaster of elections in the United States and abroad.
	Trump’s plans for immigration, infrastructure meet swift resistance in Congress  	The president’s pitch for unity in his State of the Union did little to ease long-simmering disputes between the parties. 	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Images/SOTU2018_032-001.JPG?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-plans-for-immigration-infrastructure-meet-swift-resistance-in-congress/2018/01/31/b994df9e-062a-11e8-8777-2a059f168dd2_story.html	The Washington Post	President Trump’s pledge in his State of the Union address Tuesday night to “extend an open hand” to both parties in pursuit of an ambitious policy agenda rammed quickly Wednesday into the reality of a largely gridlocked Congress — and a deeply polarized Washington.  Trump’s call for a massive infrastructure bill to fund new bridges, roads and other projects nationwide was shelved, at least for now, as lawmakers prepared to return to disputes over spending that have gripped the Capitol for weeks.  Democrats, most of whom sat stone-faced in the House chamber during Trump’s address, blasted the president for not calling out Russia for its interference in the 2016 presidential campaign and predicted that his scripted appeal for unity could not make up for a year’s worth of divisive behavior.  And some conservatives expressed alarm that Trump offered to put more than 1 million young undocumented immigrants on a path to citizenship, as Democrats vowed to oppose Trump’s push to curb some forms of legal immigration.  “I enjoyed the fact that the president was measured and scripted, but everything we’re talking about here stays the same,” said Rep. Charlie Dent (Pa.), a centrist Republican who is retiring after this year.  Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), a former Trump campaign rival who has become a fierce ally, emerged from the speech and immediately noted the partisan breach and the disconnect between Trump’s words and the dynamics on Capitol Hill.  “I have never seen the Senate more divided than it is right now,” Cruz said.  Noted Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.): “The president talked about unity in his speech at the beginning, but by the end all he did was drive the wedges further in.”  The fleeting nature of Trump’s first State of the Union address revealed just how difficult it will be for his administration to accomplish much of anything this year in Congress.  Party leaders remain preoccupied by the approaching Feb. 8 deadline for government funding. Democrats, other than those running for reelection in conservative states, are wary of Trump’s outreach and distrustful of a president many have said is morally unfit for the office. And many Republicans, frustrated that Trump’s unpopularity is clouding out the potential political benefits of a healthy economy, are starting to hunker down ahead of the midterm election season.  Even Trump’s allies acknowledged that there is little the president can do to bring the warring factions together.  “The fights and the disagreements have nothing to do with who is at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” said Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus. “There are fundamental gaps in the Senate and the House that are keeping us from consensus.”  Those gaps are most prevalent in the ongoing budget battle. A government shutdown in late January left congressional leaders at odds and without a long-term spending deal. Democrats continue to insist that any agreement made in February must include protections for “dreamers,” the roughly 1.8 million immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children by their parents.  Republicans have resisted those calls to link a vote on the next spending bill to immigration legislation — and they are split on specifics.  The divisions on the issue among House Republicans were apparent in the aftermath of Trump’s speech, in which he said many of the young undocumented immigrants would be able to gain citizenship over a 12-year period. That legalization would be granted in return for increased spending on border security, including Trump’s proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, an end to the visa lottery and limits on family reunification policies.  Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), an advocate for a more restrictive immigration system, said Trump’s remarks on letting undocumented immigrants gain citizenship were not well-received by many of his colleagues.  “You notice the Republicans were pretty flat on that?” King asked.  Trump terminated the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last fall and set March 5 as the deadline when the bulk of their work permits would begin to expire. A federal judge has issued a temporary restraining order reinstating the program, although legal analysts said the decision probably would be overturned if challenged.  Moderate Senate Republicans, meanwhile, are urging their colleagues to let them work out an agreement with moderate Senate Democrats.  On spending, Republicans face similar fractures. GOP hawks are clamoring for a boost in military spending, but the party’s hard-liners are unhappy with proposals that would increase the federal deficit.  All of these debates will soon force House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) to put together a political Rubik’s cube that can pass both chambers by Feb. 8, or else risk another shutdown.  Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) told The Washington Post in a recent interview that it would be best if Trump stays out of the fragile talks on immigration.  “If he disappears, we still, I think, have a very good chance to pass things, as long as he doesn’t mess it all up, which could very well happen,” Schumer said.  Congressional Republicans will head Wednesday to the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia for a party retreat, where Trump is scheduled to visit, and spending and immigration issues are expected to be discussed.  Trump’s emphasis Tuesday on improving infrastructure, pledging to build “gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways and waterways all across our land,” drew some bipartisan praise.  Yet his plans for funding the infrastructure — with legislation that would “leverage” state, local and private money to generate $1.5 trillion — prompted questions and scrutiny.  “One-point-five trillion [dollars] matched by apparently $1.5 trillion at the state — where does that come from, how does that work? A lot of details that need to be worked out,” said Sen. Cory Gardner (Colo.), the chairman of the Senate Republican campaign arm.  Although infrastructure has been viewed as a potentially unifying issue for the two parties, Democrats and Republicans remain far apart on how to proceed.  Most Republicans, as they mingled at the Capitol on Tuesday after Trump’s speech, talked up infrastructure as public-private partnerships driven by tax credits for corporations. Democrats, however, talked about infrastructure as federal spending that should be driven by Congress, not by companies.  “It’s totally different,” Sen. Richard J. Durbin (Ill.), the No. 2 Democrat, said of the Democrats’ understanding of infrastructure. Referring to Trump’s comments on funding, Durbin added: “To me, it’s a throwaway line, it avoids coming up with serious funding.”  Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), who is running for reelection in a state Trump won, added, “There are a bunch of us that want to work on infrastructure, but it can’t be overly reliant on tolls from blue areas of the country and leave red areas of the country behind.”  Republicans in swing districts said they are looking for “incremental” action in the coming months, if anything. Facing a potential Democratic wave in the midterm elections, according to most nonpartisan analysts, they are focused on selling the Republican tax law that was passed last year.  “Folks in my district want to learn about why the tax bill is good,” said Rep. Ryan Costello (R-Pa.), who represents the Philadelphia suburbs. “I’m hearing as much about the president’s style and tone as I am about his policies. They’re allergic to that and it makes a member like me have to speak out.”  Factoring into the static atmosphere are the retirements of Republicans who in the past have shepherded legislative deals. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (N.J.), the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, announced Monday that he will not seek reelection, making him the eighth House committee chairman to do so in recent months.  The Democratic Party’s intense aversion to Trump, along with Republican infighting, leaves the president with few options for grand bargains.  Durbin said he has not spoken to Trump since early January, when Trump erupted and used vulgar language about immigrants from Haiti, El Salvador and African countries during an Oval Office meeting.  “I’ve spoken to the president five times in my life,” Durbin said tersely. “So it isn’t as if we are going to play golf or chat.”  David Nakamura, Sean Sullivan and Ed O’Keefe contributed to this report.
	Could Trump be the president who finishes off the State of the Union address?	After thousands of tweets, one annual speech may not mean much.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517375698718_name_20180130_trump_thumbnail.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2018/01/31/could-trump-be-the-president-who-finishes-off-the-state-of-the-union-address/	The Washington Post	Last night, President Trump became the latest commander in chief to “give to the Congress information of the state of the union” and recommend legislative measures he judged “necessary and expedient,” as the U.S. Constitution dictates and invites.  From this vague mandate, U.S. presidents have wrought a sort of alchemy, turning duty into power. They have used the occasion to occupy center stage and set the national agenda — taking advantage both of legislators’ collective action problems and of the past century’s various communications revolutions. Radio, television and now social media have greatly expanded the president’s audience and, in principle, his persuasive powers — and the chance to seize the scarcest resource of all: public attention.  Of course, as with most efforts at alchemy, the result may not be pure gold.  For one thing, the SOTU is rarely a good speech. True, according to no less an authority than Trump, “some people said” his address last February — not technically a State of the Union but hard to differentiate — “was the single best speech ever made in that chamber.”  But in the real world, the SOTU tends to follow formula, and presidential archives suggest this has been true for a long time. Back in 1958 Eisenhower staffer Clarence Randall observed in his journal that the draft of Ike’s address “isn’t much of a document, and no State of the Union message ever will be. It never can have any character because it has to reflect the thinking of so many different people.”  A 1964 memo to LBJ White House aide Bill Moyers (yes, that Bill Moyers) noted that “everybody wants his own pet project mentioned, and the State of the Union message tends to evolve into a laundry list. … The situation has become almost ridiculous.”  More than two decades later, Reagan aide Mitch Daniels — these days the former governor of Indiana and the president of Purdue University — gave his own sartorial views on the 1986 State of the Union. “Everyone favors some sort of visionary, thematic SOTU as opposed to a legislative laundry list,” Daniels wrote. “This is an especially sound idea when your laundry consists mainly of sweat socks and old underwear.”  The SOTU’s aim instead is to stress the administration’s achievements to the home audience and to show the president in command of a wide-ranging, substantive program for the year to come.  Historically, the “president’s program” has also served to set not just the legislative agenda but the bureaucratic agenda, too. The process of assembling the program has been used to make sure departments and agencies were following the White House’s lead, while poaching their most innovative ideas for national — presidential — presentation. The SOTU traditionally touts proposals that are quickly translated into specific legislative measures and sent at tactical intervals to Congress.  [What happened to the State of the Union address? Originally, it helped the president and Congress deliberate.]  While Trump’s speech Tuesday night did name-check a wide array of issues, it rarely veered into such substantive detail. It took half an hour before Trump first called on Congress to do something: Allow Cabinet members to fire bureaucrats “who fail the American people.” He proposed that $1.5 trillion be spent on infrastructure, in some combination of federal, state, local and private sector funding, but whose cash and what entities would build these “gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways and waterways” were left undefined. Lower prices for prescription drugs were touted as “one of my greatest priorities,” and opioids as a “terrible crisis” and “scourge,” but we heard no details about how to address either.  Did the president ask for a new Authorization for the Use of Military Force? Possibly. (“I’m also asking the Congress to ensure that, in the fight against ISIS and al-Qaeda, we continue to have all necessary power to detain terrorists.”) Russia and China were only mentioned in passing, and Russian intervention in U.S. politics not at all.  Immigration was the exception that proved the rule: The topic took up close to a quarter of the speech and the president laid out “four pillars” he wanted to see in a new bill.  This year, the White House stressed, the speech would be “positive and forward-looking,” with less “American carnage” and more “New American Moment.” At times the president did “call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek out common ground, and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people we were elected to serve.” Within five minutes, he had turned to his guests in the gallery: heroes of Hurricane Harvey and of wildfires in the West. He even said something nice about California. This astute tactic guaranteed bipartisan applause at the outset — and mentioning “firefighters, police officers, border agents, medics and Marines” guaranteed it at the conclusion.  Still, unity may be hard to conjure after the broadsheets’ worth of pages of tweeted insults over the last year. Every recent president is a minority leader, of sorts — but Trump has spent less effort than most in seeking to broaden his base. The speech hit hard on “disastrous Obamacare” and took an extended detour into the need to stand for the national anthem, one of Trump’s favorite racially charged targets. In discussing immigration he stressed that “Americans are dreamers, too,” a sentiment immediately endorsed by KKK luminary David Duke — and a sharp contrast to Sen. John McCain’s recent invocation of the “creed” that defines Americans in the first place: “We live in a land made of ideals, not blood and soil.”  The president did have good news to tout, and he took full advantage. Economic indicators are robust, and Trump’s approach to regulation and deregulation has been consistently aggressive. Some of the speech’s claims were exaggerated; for starters, “the biggest tax cuts in history” are not, and rolling back regulation is different from freezing pending rules or constraining new ones. There are risks in touting measures — the Dow Jones, say — that go down as well as “through the roof.” Still, Trump is hardly the first politician to take credit for positive economic news while hoping blame will deflect elsewhere.  Where Trump may be unique, though, is on another metric: in hastening the obsolescence of the State of the Union itself. For a long time, the attention focused on the address was a presidential, well, trump card. Its very regularity forced the presidency into action and helped coordinate the bureaucracy, the congressional agenda, and public attention.  But Trump’s addresses to Congress, so far at least, have achieved only the last. And after more than 2,000 tweets, Trump hardly depends on one winter’s night of media attention to focus the world on his rhetoric. If presidential words are no longer a finite resource, does the State of the Union still matter?  Editor’s note: This post has been edited to clarify that not all presidents delivered a State of the Union address or message.
	Fact-checking the 2018 State of the Union address	Here's are 10 of the president's most dubious claims during the State of the Union address.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517381613554_name_SOTU2018_049.JPG?t=20170517a		The Washington Post	
	Statement from porn star Stormy Daniels says affair with Trump ‘never happened’	Issued hours before appearance on the Jimmy Kimmel show, it says she will have ‘no further comment’ on the matter	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Images/Trump_Porn_Star_86965-92d0f.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/porn-star-stormy-daniels-says-affair-with-trump-never-happened/2018/01/30/d8d5fcea-0633-11e8-b48c-b07fea957bd5_story.html	The Washington Post	Hours before a scheduled appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” to follow President Trump’s nationally televised State of the Union address on Tuesday night, porn star Stormy Daniels issued a signed statement addressed “To Whom It May Concern” that denied an alleged affair with Donald Trump.  “The fact of the matter is that each party to this alleged affair denied its existence in 2006, 2011, 2016, 2017 and now again in 2018,” the signed statement reads. “I am not denying this affair because I was paid ‘hush money’ as has been reported in overseas owned tabloids. I am denying it because it never happened.”  The alleged affair came to prominence in early January when the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump’s longtime attorney Michael Cohen negotiated a secret $130,000 payment to secure Daniels’s silence shortly before the 2016 presidential election.  The White House dismissed the story as “old, recycled reports.” Cohen also released a statement signed by “Stormy Daniels” denying there had been an affair and calling reports of a payment “completely false.”  The celebrity magazine In Touch subsequently published a transcript of an interview it said Daniels gave in 2011. The reporter, Jordi Lippe-McGraw, who spoke with Daniels according to In Touch, confirmed to The Washington Post that the transcript was an accurate reflection of their May 2011 phone interview.  Here is what we know about the allegation that an adult-film star reportedly was paid to remain silent about a sexual relationship with Donald Trump before he was president. The Washington Post has not been able to independently confirm this payment. (The Washington Post)  Tuesday’s statement came as Daniels has been cashing in on her newfound notoriety, with sold-out shows at strip clubs, an appearance at the AVN awards show in Las Vegas known as the “Oscars of Porn,” as well as on national media including “Inside Edition” in addition to “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Daniels is also scheduled to appear Thursday on “The View.”  The new denial also came in the wake of reports that first lady Melania Trump was upset by stories about the affair, which allegedly began soon after she gave birth to their son, Barron. The first lady recently canceled plans to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, with her husband and retired instead to their Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago. Melania Trump attended the State of the Union address Tuesday night.  [Do we really need a first lady?]  The authenticity of the signed statement was confirmed Tuesday by Daniels’s representative Gina Rodriguez.  The statement ends abruptly. “I will have no further comment on this matter,” it reads and then concludes with a promotional message: “Please feel free to check me out on Instagram at @thestormydaniels.”
	Trump says he’ll ‘100 percent’ release memo	After delivering his State of the Union address on Jan. 30, President Trump told Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.) that he will “100 percent” release a memo alleging abuse by the FBI.	https://www.washingtonpost.com/rf/image_220x164/2010-2019/WashingtonPost/2018/01/31/National-Politics/Videos/Images/201801/t_1517377029937_name_20180130_trump_memo.jpg?t=20170517a	https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/politics/trump-says-hell-100-percent-release-memo/2018/01/31/cc4bc846-0648-11e8-aa61-f3391373867e_video.html	The Washington Post	All the times President Trump clapped at his own State of the Union lines
	China Is Attempting To Muzzle #MeToo	As the women's rights movement spreads among Chinese universities, it poses a unique challenge to the country's male-dominated, authoritarian regime.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/rts1lu40-edit_wide-1cefa198c9ef7d8358aa7a220460b761902e4279-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2018/02/01/582167268/china-is-attempting-to-muzzle-metoo	NPR	When Xiao Meili entered her freshman year at the Communication University of China in 2008, she was inundated with sexist messages that made her feel bad about herself.  "In high school, we were never allowed to wear makeup, then when we started university, all of a sudden, becoming a 'pretty woman' became a very important responsibility," said Xiao. "I tried hard but it was just impossible for me to live up to all these ridiculous standards placed on women."  Ten years later, Xiao has become a prominent feminist activist and one of many Chinese women who have seized on the momentum of the global #MeToo movement against sexual harassment to call for change at home.  As the #MeToo campaign spreads from one university to another in China, it is demonstrating the extraordinary resilience of a feminist movement that has posed a unique challenge to China's male-dominated, authoritarian regime. For the first time since the founding of the People's Republic in 1949, organized feminist activists, independent of the ruling Communist Party, have tapped into a broad discontent among Chinese women and developed a level of influence over public opinion that is unusual for any social movement in China.  Ever since authorities arrested five young women — known as China's "Feminist Five" — in 2015 for planning to commemorate International Women's Day by handing out stickers about sexual harassment, the Communist Party has tried to stamp out the feminist movement. Almost a year ago, censors temporarily banned Feminist Voices, the most influential feminist website and social media account in China, ostensibly because it had posted an article about a planned women's strike in the United States protesting President Trump on International Women's Day.  The founding editor of Feminist Voices, Lu Pin, believed the 30-day ban was meant to send a warning to the growing number of vocal Chinese feminists online.  "Chinese women feel very unequal every day of their lives, and the government cannot make women oblivious to the deep injustice they feel," says Lu. "The feminist movement is about building a community to address women's everyday concerns."  Despite the authorities' sustained persecution of women's rights activists in recent years, the feminist resistance may yet have the potential to become China's most transformative movement in the long run — provided that any social movement is allowed to exist in the repressive political environment. Feminist activists have cultivated a closely networked community of supporters numbering in the thousands, revolving around university students and graduates in different cities across China. Some of them have become effective organizers, capable of mobilizing citizens around issues that resonate deeply with ordinary Chinese women, such as pervasive gender discrimination and sexual harassment on public transportation, in the workplace and in schools. Even as authorities harass the most prominent feminists, local governments sometimes respond to the activists' demands, for example, by displaying anti-sexual harassment ads on subways in cities like Shenzhen and Beijing.  As record numbers of Chinese women attend university, both in China and abroad, they are beginning to challenge widespread sexism and unequal treatment. Since the government abolished its one-child policy at the beginning of 2016, it has aggressively promoted a new two-child policy, urging women to marry and have children as soon as possible, to address its demographic crises of a severely aging population, falling birth rates and a shrinking workforce.  But women in China's rapidly expanding middle class are increasingly recoiling from the intense pressure of heterosexual marriage and child-rearing pushed by sexist Chinese state propaganda, as gender inequality in wealth and status has widened along with breakneck economic growth.  More and more young Chinese women are identifying as feminists. And, in recent weeks, thousands of female — and also some male — students and alumni in China have defied heavy Internet censorship to sign #MeToo petitions at dozens of universities, demanding action against sexual harassment.  Feminist activist Xiao launched a #MeToo petition addressed to her alma mater: "Given the severity of sexual harassment at institutions, we feel obliged to be vocal. It's imperative that Chinese colleges construct a mechanism to prevent sexual harassment on campus," said her petition to Beijing's Communication University of China.  It was deleted by censors soon after she posted it on the social media platform Weibo and the group messaging app WeChat. A week later, several women who signed Xiao's petition said that a professor had questioned them about why they were taking part in the #MeToo movement and whether they were influenced by "hostile foreign forces."  This line of questioning is not new. Last May, the website of the People's Daily — the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party — published an announcement warning that "Western hostile forces" were using "Western feminism" to interfere in China's handling of women's affairs. The vice president of the All-China Women's Federation, Song Xiuyan, was quoted as saying that Party officials working on women's issues were in the midst of a "serious political struggle" and urgently needed to follow President Xi Jinping's instruction to guard against Western ideological infiltration.  As International Women's Day (and the anniversary of the arrest of the Feminist Five) on March 8 approaches this year, feminist activists may face another crackdown in an attempt to prevent the #MeToo movement from spreading any further. Already, calls for an end to sexual harassment have begun to expand beyond China's university-educated women to factory women.  An anonymous female assembly-line worker who suffered routine sexual harassment at Foxconn, Apple's main supplier for Asia, published an essay last month on a Chinese women's labor rights website demanding that her employer set up proper channels of recourse for victims like herself. "We call for more men to pay attention to the situation of their sisters," she wrote in the essay, translated by SupChina.  Some students in Beijing had planned a march against sexual harassment on university campuses, but canceled it after receiving warnings from their school, according to Reuters. Still, feminist activist Lu says it will be extremely hard to silence all the women who want to speak out.  "Once women experience a feminist awakening and stop believing Communist Party propaganda," she says, "they can never go back."  Leta Hong Fincher (@LetaHong) is the author of Betraying Big Brother: The Feminist Awakening in China (Verso 2018).
	Memes, Video Games Mock Catalonia's Prolonged Deadlock With Spain	Smartphone game apps "help us survive the sad, difficult, demoralizing reality of politics," says a Catalan illustrator who helped create a version of Donkey Kong making fun of Catalonia's crisis.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-912297680_wide-6c96cca83210c6a4d0b068b5617728041316f446-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2018/02/01/582215221/memes-video-games-mock-catalonias-prolonged-deadlock-with-spain	NPR	Four months after Catalonia's independence referendum triggered a cascade of political events, independentistas are once again rallying outside the Catalan parliament in Barcelona. Catalonia's deposed president is still on the run. And Spain's renegade northeast region may be heading for fresh elections — yet again.  Friday is Groundhog Day in the U.S., but the place where things really feel like the 1993 Bill Murray film about being stuck in a time warp is Catalonia. History is repeating itself with yet another standoff between separatists, who want to break away and form a new country in Europe, and the Spanish central government, determined to stop them.  This is Europe's most serious secessionist challenge, and it shows no signs of going away.  This past autumn saw turmoil in Catalonia and its regional capital Barcelona, with daily street protests, general strikes and violence at polling stations Oct. 1, when separatists held an illegal independence vote and the central government deployed riot police to halt it. Madrid imposed emergency rule, firing local lawmakers and forcing fresh elections.  Carles Puigdemont, the ex-president, went into exile in Belgium. Several of his aides went to jail.  Tourism slumped. Thousands of companies moved their bases — at least on paper — out of Catalonia and into neighboring regions deemed more stable.  After all that, Catalans voted in December for virtually the same regional parliament: A slim majority, 70 of 135 seats, was voted in for separatist parties. A quirky electoral system means rural votes count more than urban ones. But opinion polls show Catalans are roughly divided 50-50 on the question of independence.  Still, the parliament election was a blow to Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who had hoped the unrest and economic repercussions would convince Catalans not to back the separatists again.  The Spanish government says Spain is indivisible, and a breakup of the country would be unconstitutional. It also points to the polls: There's no mandate for secession, Spain and its European allies say.  "Spain is very good at prolonging these absurd situations, because no politician will back down and admit to a flawed strategy. 'Groundhog Day' is not a bad name for it," says Gabriela Bustelo, a Madrid-based political columnist and author. "The public is completely exasperated. I think Brussels and the wider world are beginning to see it as a circus."  The crisis has elicited alarm and consternation both in and outside Spain, but some in Spain are responding with parody and games. "Video games can be a powerful communication tool — and so can humor. Together they help us survive the sad, difficult, demoralizing reality of politics," says Jordi Calvís, a Catalan illustrator who helped create "PuigdeKong," a new Android version of the old Donkey Kong video game. Its name plays off Puigdemont's.  Catalonia has its own language and culture, and has long sought autonomy from the rest of Spain. It's Spain's richest region, and when the country's economic crisis hit a decade ago, many Catalans began to resent their tax money subsidizing poorer parts of Spain. Separatist politics moved from the fringe to the mainstream.  This week, pro-independence demonstrators were back on the streets after the separatist-led Catalan parliament postponed a vote to re-elect Puigdemont as regional president — a move that could have prompted further crackdowns from Madrid. But without an elected leader, the region could be forced to repeat regional elections. It would be the third round of polls in 2 1/2 years.  Puigdemont, 55, a former journalist and mayor who took office in 2015, organized the Oct. 1 referendum and declared independence afterward — and was swiftly fired by the Spanish government. Facing 30 years in prison for rebellion, he fled to Belgium and recently proposed governing from there — by Skype.  With a warrant out for his arrest, Puigdemont would likely be detained immediately if he were to set foot back in Spain. But the Catalan parliament has named him its sole candidate for Catalan president. So he has proposed doing his job remotely. "New technologies" in videoconferencing would allow him to govern from exile, he says.  "Between being president or becoming a prisoner, I'd rather be president," Puigdemont told a Catalan news agency last month.  Most legal experts say the idea of ruling by Skype is impractical, if not illegal.  "It's almost ridiculous. One thing is to govern a multinational company from a headquarters somewhere. But in the case of states or regions, it's necessary to be present," says Xavier Arbós Marín, a constitutional law expert who teaches at the University of Barcelona and other institutions in Catalonia. "Even the internal rules of the Catalan parliament require a candidate to speak before the chamber, to present his or her program for governing. It implies that he has to physically be here."  Spain's Constitutional Court ruled last Saturday that candidates must be present to take office. It also ruled that Puigdemont, as a fugitive from Spanish law, would require a judge's permission to attend any session of Catalonia's parliament.  Last weekend, speculation grew about his arrest after a separatist lawmaker said Puigdemont would ask a Spanish judge for free passage home to Barcelona to attend parliament on Tuesday, when lawmakers planned to vote on his candidacy. (The vote was later postponed.) Police checked cars this week along the French border. A special government task force was created to search for Puigdemont, Spain's interior minister said.  "Even though there are many country roads and he could enter by boat, helicopter, or ultralight, we are working to prevent this from happening," Interior Minister Juan Ignacio Zoido told a local TV station last week. "And we're trying to stop him from entering, even in the trunk of a car."  The suggestion prompted a meme on Twitter: photos of wigs with Puigdemont's signature floppy hairstyle sticking out of the trunks of cars on Spanish highways.  The Catalonia impasse has inspired a raft of new smartphone game apps in Spain. Several — "Puigdemont GO" and "Whack Puigdemont" — make fun of Catalan politics.  "PuigdeKong," in the Google Play app store, allows players to "help the elected candidate reach the Parliament and save him from the clutches of the undemocractic monkey and his henchmen."  The identity of the undemocratic monkey depends on what side you're on.  Calvís, the Catalan illustrator who helped create PuigdeKong and designed the game's pixelated, old-school graphics, sympathizes with the independence movement and wanted to make a political statement through the game. He thinks Spain has not grown much since the dictatorship of Francisco Franco, who died in 1975. Catalan language and culture were repressed under Franco.  "I see a Spain that's still far from advancing in rights and public freedoms that are common in other 21st century democracies," Calvís says.  You don't have to be a Puigdemont supporter to think such games are funny or valuable in dealing with political fatigue, says Bustelo, the Madrid analyst who supports Catalan unity with Spain.  "We have the sense that what's happening makes no sense. So people have decided to start laughing," she says. "Tabarnia is the most serious of the jokes."  Tabarnia — its name a mix of two Catalan cities, Tarragona and Barcelona — is a fictional region along Catalonia's coast, created by unionists as a parody of the Catalan independence movement. Tabarnia wants to secede from Catalonia and unite with Spain. It has its own mock flag, newspaper and president.  Although its creation preceded Catalonia's current turmoil, Tabarnia has gained new attention and popularity of late. The lines between parody and real life blurred in recent weeks, when, according to the BBC, "Tabarnia's representatives sent a petition to the Spanish parliament demanding the right to 'be a new autonomous region within Spain and independent from Catalonia.' To date, it has received more than 275,000 signatures."  Even without the threat of a fake breakaway region, more instability seems certain in the weeks to come, as Catalonia remains stuck repeating its demonstrations, elections and confrontations with Madrid.
	Poland Passes Bill Criminalizing Claims Of Its Complicity In The Holocaust	The Nazis established some of the most notorious extermination camps of the Holocaust on Polish soil — including Auschwitz-Birkenau.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/01/30/ap_18027794295293_wide-e61757af48cf35f313de1ca29b19734df3572352-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/581896647/poland-passes-bill-criminalizing-claims-of-its-complicity-in-the-holocaust	NPR	Poland Passes Bill Criminalizing Claims Of Its Complicity In The Holocaust  Is it an attempt to preserve the Polish name from wanton historical slander, or a reckless attempt to erase an uncomfortable part of Poland's past?  A bill passed by the country's Senate Thursday less than a week after the lower chamber did the same, has been described in vastly varying terms — though the terms the bill itself bans are quite clear: It would be illegal — and punishable by up to three years in prison — to claim Poland was complicit in the Nazi atrocities committed on Polish soil during World War II.  The bill is now just a presidential signature away from becoming law and Polish President Andrzej Duda has signaled he intends to sign it.  "We, the Poles, were victims, as were the Jews," Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydlo said Wednesday before the vote, according to Reuters. "It is a duty of every Pole to defend the good name of Poland."  During World War II, Germans killed at least 3 million Jewish citizens of Poland another 1.9 million non-Jewish Polish civilians, according to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. And the Nazis established some of the most notorious extermination camps of the Holocaust on Polish soil — including Auschwitz-Birkenau near Oświęcim, Poland, where nearly 1 million Jews and roughly 75,000 non-Jewish Poles died.  "Auschwitz is the most bitter lesson on how evil ideologies can lead to hell on earth," Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki explained in a tweet defending the bill last weekend. "Jews, Poles, and all victims should be guardians of the memory of all who were murdered by German Nazis."  But he added that "Auschwitz-Birkenau is not a Polish name, and Arbeit Macht Frei is not a Polish phrase," referring to the infamous phrase — "Work Sets You Free," in German — wrought in metalwork above the entrances to several Nazi concentration and death camps.  Poland's right-wing ruling Law and Justice party, which has been pushing the measure, has made several moves recently that haven't sat well with their European neighbors — including new laws cementing political control over the country's court system, which have drawn the threat of sanctions from the European Union, and revived talk of possibly demanding war reparations from Germany.  This time, the criticism has extended beyond the borders of Europe, too.  "The history of the Holocaust is painful and complex. We understand that phrases such as 'Polish death camps' are inaccurate, misleading, and hurtful. We are concerned, however, that if enacted this draft legislation could undermine free speech and academic discourse," U.S. State Department spokesperson Heather Nauert said in a statement Wednesday.  "We all must be careful not to inhibit discussion and commentary on the Holocaust," she added, encouraging Polish politicians to reconsider their position. "We believe open debate, scholarship, and education are the best means of countering inaccurate and hurtful speech."  Nauert noted, in particular, the harm the legislation threatened to Poland's relationship with Israel — damage already starkly apparent in the country's immediate condemnation of the bill, which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has criticized as "baseless."  "Israel opposes categorically the Polish Senate decision," the spokesman for Israel's foreign ministry, Emmanuel Nahshon, tweeted Thursday. "Israel views with utmost gravity any attempt to challenge historical truth. No law will change the facts."  The facts are that historians have dredged several pogroms from the historical record that, seen in new shades, have jarred certain commonly accepted accounts of the war.  There was the 1941 massacre of hundreds of Jews in rural northeast Poland that, as historian Jan Gross argues, was carried out not under Nazi direction but rather on the initiative of the villagers' own Polish neighbors. And then there was the killing of dozens of Jews a year after the war's end in the town of Kielce, again apparently conducted by their Polish neighbors.  Yad Vashem, Israel's official memorial to Holocaust victims, argues the point is not to assign blame to all Polish people — thousands of whom are recognized by the center as Righteous Among the Nations, or "non-Jews who took great risks to save Jews during the Holocaust" — but rather to preserve open dialog about a painful, complicated tragedy.  Yad Vashem agreed with Polish lawmakers "that the term 'Polish death camps' is erroneous" — but said education programs, rather than "this problematic piece of legislation," is the proper response to such inaccuracies.  "The law passed last night in the Polish Senate jeopardizes the free and open discussion of the part of the Polish people in the persecution of the Jews at the time," the group said in a statement Thursday. "Yad Vashem will continue to support research aimed at exposing the complex truth of Polish-Jewish relations during the Holocaust and promoting educational and commemorative activities in this spirit."
	Why French Unions Aren't Taking To The Streets Like They Used To	Hard-line unions once wielded tremendous power and made French presidents quake in their boots for decades. Here's how President Emmanuel Macron is defeating them.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/01/29/ap_17292481598141_wide-5a2eb6449aaf6e9d4b8c7c3d23aa293c6c3df75f-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2018/02/01/581534140/why-the-french-dont-take-to-the-streets-like-they-used-to	NPR	Why French Unions Aren't Taking To The Streets Like They Used To  When President Emmanuel Macron set out to overhaul France's notoriously rigid labor laws last fall, unions promised crippling strikes to stop him.  All of France, it seemed, was waiting for the showdown.  After all, the country's powerful unions have stopped French leaders from overhauling their cherished work code for decades. In 2016, a succession of strikes and 14 nationwide protests snuffed out President François Hollande's hopes for simplifying the 3,000-page employment code.  Yet just months into the new presidency, Macron sped through the kind of labor changes many of his predecessors could only dream of. The few marches against him were sparsely attended and soon petered out.  The government's next move is to tighten the unemployment benefits system and overhaul the state pension program — and no one is expecting major resistance.  Even the economy is going Macron's way. Along with a global growth trend, France's gross domestic product expanded 1.9 percent in 2017 — the highest in six years.  Still, the country's unemployment rate is high at 9.2 percent, above the eurozone average, according to new figures from the European Union's statistics office. Macron is banking on his reforms triggering job creation.  Businesses in France long complained they could not expand because it was too hard to get rid of workers if they needed to. Macron's law makes it easier for companies to hire and fire. It puts a cap on damages for which fired workers can sue their former employer. It also takes away some of workers' collective bargaining power, by enabling managers and employees to negotiate workplace rules company by company — bypassing national unions.  Just a couple of months after the changes, businesses are already exerting their new power to fire. And they're no longer legally required to justify layoffs by showing financial difficulty.  French carmaker Peugeot plans to eliminate 1,300 workers, using Macron's new rules for voluntary redundancies, and the company reportedly says it could hire just as many more — mostly younger employees with digital skills. Carrefour, the country's biggest supermarket chain, plans to let go of 2,400 workers.  Pierre Boisard, a sociologist who studies unions and employment issues, says Hollande's and Macron's situations were entirely different.  "Hollande tried to make these kinds of changes at the end of his term. And they were not in his platform, so he had no legitimacy," Boisard says. "Macron campaigned on revamping the French economy."  Philippe Martinez, head of the hard-line General Confederation of Labor union, or CGT, admits Macron won the first round.  "But it doesn't mean the French approve of what he's doing," says Martinez, speaking at his headquarters in the Paris working-class district of Montreuil, during a recent meeting with the Anglo-American Press Association of Paris. Several polls last fall showed nearly 60 percent of French respondents didn't support the labor reforms.  But the president's popularity has increased since last fall. Martinez reckons the boost won't last. Like most of the president's detractors, he doesn't believe Macron has a mandate.  "He was elected by default," says Martinez. "Not because voters chose him, but because they were eliminating other candidates." Martinez is referring in particular to far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen, who faced off against Macron in the final round of voting last May.  Macron won with more than 65 percent of the vote. Then in June, his new En Marche! or "Onward!" party swept legislative elections and now holds a significant majority in parliament. Today no one can deny there is a big mood change in France.  Macron, a 40-year-old former banker, arrived just when French voters wanted to upend the political status quo. "He appeared at a time when the French were totally exhausted with the political forces that have governed this country for the last 40 years," Boisard says.  French billionaire Xavier Niel backs the president and his reforms plan.  "The mere fact of having a young, dynamic, pro-startup, pro-entrepreneur president who is not tied to any of the old political parties is huge," he says.  Niel, a telecom tycoon, pumped about $300 million of his own money into an old train depot, turning it into an airy, 366,000-square-foot hub for startups.  Station F is across town, and a world away from the Soviet-style, cinderblock headquarters of the CGT. What's being called the world's largest startup campus has attracted 1,000 startups and 3,000 entrepreneurs from around the world since it opened in June.  Niel says France's anti-business image was always worse than the reality. He says Macron is improving both.  Sociologist Boisard says the power of the unions to quickly organize hundreds of thousands of strikers and protesters has been blunted. "Many people are even wondering if the unions' power may be gone for good," he muses.  Though French unions may seem hugely powerful, judging from their perennial strikes and marches, France actually has some of the lowest union membership rates in Western Europe. Only 11 percent of French workers were unionized in 2013, according to the most recent Labor Ministry data available on the subject. That's down from over 30 percent of the workforce in 1949.  But unions still hold power in prominent sectors like transportation and utilities. So when workers take action, it can cause disruption for the European Union's second-largest economy and grab lots of attention.  Macron once worked as an investment banker, but he's not what the French call a "savage capitalist." The French president says he wants to transform France and develop the country's innovative spirit, but he also speaks of sharing the wealth and protecting workers hurt by globalization.  Before tweaking the labor code, the government held extensive talks with union leaders. Martinez was there.  "I saw Macron more in six months than I saw Hollande in five years," Martinez says. "He understands that you have to at least give the impression of communicating and negotiating. But the truth is it wasn't negotiation, it was more like consulting us. The government listened to what we had to say, but in the end they did what they wanted."  Significantly though, Macron got two other major unions to sign on to his labor law overhaul, leaving the CGT as an outlier.  Martinez rejects the idea that Macron is making France more attractive to foreign investors. He says his country was already attractive.  When CEOs vaunt the advantages of France to foreign investors, he says they point to the same attributes celebrated by unions. "They say France has reliable and good roads and rail networks and they point to our social model when talking about the attractiveness of France," he says.  Up-to-date statistics for unions across the national labor market were unavailable. But Martinez says in recent years, he's noticed CGT's membership declining, and labor sociologist Boisard believes the trend is occurring in other unions too.  Some workers don't see the advantages of joining a union: In France, the agreements they negotiate apply to all employees.  "We're no longer able to bring tens of thousands to the streets with a single call to strike," Martinez acknowledges.  He says the union needs to attract young people. To do this, they are adapting their strategy.  With its communist, anti-capitalist roots, the firebrand union has long focused on "the class struggle." But Martinez says they're now concentrating on individual job satisfaction.  "Young people don't feel like they have any room for creativity in big companies anymore," says Martinez. "They aren't able to do what they know how to do because everything is about profitability."  Martinez points to young nurses and doctors at a rural hospital he recently visited. He says they get the training they need, but now have to restrict their time to seven minutes per patient to cut costs.  Sociologist Boisard says it may be difficult for unions to attract young people because times have changed and unions are struggling to adapt.  "Young people today are much more engaged with the world and more mobile," he says. "They don't want to build careers only in France." Boisard says that makes it much less likely they'll mobilize for purely French national issues. "Because now the whole world is open to them."  Back at the startup hub, there's not a lot of talk about unions, but there does seem to be an appreciation for the kind of society French unions have helped build. Some of the foreign entrepreneurs speak enthusiastically about the quality of life in France, including the five weeks of paid vacation.  Niel says he is proud of the French social system, which unions helped build and defend.  "It's not a form of communism," he says. "When I'm sick, I don't wonder if I'm going to be taken care of or if I have the money to be treated. When I go to a French hospital, I know I'll get good care. No matter who I am."
	Mueller's Reputation In Washington Is 'Stunningly Bipartisan,' Journalist Says	Author Garrett Graff discusses the special counsel in charge of the Trump/Russia investigation: "Bob Mueller is probably about as apolitical and nonpartisan a figure as you could find in Washington."	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/ap_070309015280_wide-2442003c0f2405be62fe813e5b92c323d679588b-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/2018/02/01/582358540/muellers-reputation-in-washington-is-stunningly-bipartisan-journalist-says	NPR	
	Trump Claims His SOTU Had The Highest Ratings In History. It Didn't	Though the specific numbers he cites in his tweet are correct, Trump's audience on Tuesday night wasn't close to being the largest for a State of the Union.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-912415434_wide-83699c9c5eef86e2fde3076dcc8acc2f65dbc154-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/582414052/trump-claims-his-sotu-had-the-highest-ratings-in-history-it-didnt	NPR	Trump Claims His SOTU Had The Highest Ratings In History. It Didn't  In a tweet, President Trump claimed the largest audience ever tuned in for his State of the Union address. That's not true.  "Thank you for all of the nice compliments and reviews on the State of the Union speech," Trump tweeted just after 7 a.m. ET Thursday. "45.6 million people watched, the highest number in history. @FoxNews beat every other Network, for the first time ever, with 11.7 million people tuning in. Delivered from the heart!"  Though the specific numbers he cites in his tweet are correct, Trump's audience on Tuesday night wasn't close to being the highest in history for a State of the Union.  Quick note: The speech a president gives just after taking office looks like a State of the Union but is actually a joint address to Congress. But just for the purposes of this article, we will call those big speeches early in the first year of a presidency SOTUs, too, as a shorthand.  Let's look at the numbers. Nielsen counts the number of people who watch the speeches on broadcast networks, cable and PBS, either live or on the same day.  Nielsen reported Wednesday that an estimated 45.6 million people tuned in to Trump's address on Tuesday night. Compared with other SOTUs since 1993, that total puts Trump's speech in ninth place.  The SOTU with the largest audience was Bill Clinton's 1993 speech, which drew a whopping 66.9 million viewers.  And if you look at the combined household rating, rather than combined number of viewers, Trump's 26.9 rating nets him 16th place, tied with George W. Bush's 2006 address. (Clinton's 1993 speech also wins on the rating front, with a 44.3.)  But despite the president's obsession with ratings, it's worth remembering that methods for counting television viewers are imperfect. The New York Times notes that the figures don't include streaming.  President Barack Obama's first official State of the Union, a year into his presidency, drew 48 million viewers and a 29.8 rating — higher on both metrics than Trump's speech on Tuesday.  It's not clear where Trump got the notion that his SOTU numbers were the highest. But CNN's Brian Stelter notes that a segment on Fox and Friends, which Trump reportedly watches, Thursday morning mentioned the 45.6 million total and that Fox had a record number of viewers.  Following the president's morning tweet, Fox News Research tweeted Nielsen's viewership numbers for SOTUs back to 1993, along with a photo of Trump.
	A 13th Child Is Raped And Murdered — And A Pakistani City Is Up In Arms	The murder and rape of 7-year-old Zainab Amin caused a political crisis aimed at officials, whom they accused of failing to protect the children of Kasur.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/_mg_8792-501_wide-412e791136a7c009a5f3ec1516ef49dfecd6aeda-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2018/02/01/582367450/a-13th-child-is-raped-and-murdered-and-a-pakistani-city-is-up-in-arms	NPR	
	Nashville Mayor Admits Extramarital Affair With Former Security Head	"I know that God will forgive me, but that Nashville doesn't have to," Mayor Megan Barry said. "I hope that I can earn your trust back and that you will forgive me."	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-856841600_wide-379f8092d1a2f796fda75acbd197a6e0a5cf9fa9-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/582384301/nashville-mayor-admits-extramarital-affair-with-former-security-head	NPR	Nashville Mayor Megan Barry has admitted that she had an extramarital affair with the former head of her security detail.  "I'm embarrassed, and I am sad, and I am so sorry for all the pain that I have caused my family and his family," she said at a news conference Wednesday. "I know that God will forgive me, but that Nashville doesn't have to. ... I hope that I can earn your trust back and that you will forgive me."  Barry has stated that she will not take leave or resign over the affair, as Nashville Public Radio reported. "I made a serious mistake, but this is not a tragedy," she said.  This comes at a politically sensitive moment for the mayor, as she tries to persuade the city's voters to endorse a $5.4 billion transit infrastructure plan. That measure will be voted on in a May referendum.  Barry has also recently faced personal tragedy — her only son died in July of a drug overdose.  She has denied improper use of taxpayer money during the affair with her security head, identified by the Tennessean as Metro police Sgt. Robert Forrest Jr.  The newspaper says it obtained data indicating the two billed some $33,000 in travel expenses over the past 10 months, including trips to Paris; Athens; Washington, D.C.; New York; Denver; Oakland, Calif.; Salt Lake City, and Kansas City. Forrest earned $50,000 in overtime pay in 2017, the Tennessean reported.  "I've had a very aggressive schedule, I'm out in the community, and that's reflected with the overtime that has been billed to my detail," Barry said. "The police set the policy for the kind of detail coverage that a mayor gets, and I have been the recipient of that. I have taken trips that have included detail and those trips have always been for business."  The affair began in 2016, the newspaper reported, and it's not clear precisely when it ended. It added: "Forrest submitted his retirement papers Jan. 17. His final day was Wednesday."
	Documents Reveal Second Person Of Interest In Las Vegas Shooting	A man named as a second person of interest in affidavits from the early days of the police investigation into the Las Vegas shooting in October says the gunman bought ammunition from him and left.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/01/31/gettyimages-859171850_wide-4382e0618c5dc0b713679de1a9c9f74863717e53-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/582165632/documents-reveal-second-person-of-interest-in-las-vegas-shooting	NPR	Documents Reveal Second Person Of Interest In Las Vegas Shooting  This week, when a district court in Las Vegas unsealed nearly 300 pages of police affidavits, the name of a second person of interest in the mass shooting that left 58 people dead was blacked out.  But because of an error, the documents released to The Las Vegas Review-Journal included name of an Arizona man named Douglas Haig, according to the newspaper. And it started another frenzy over whether Stephen Paddock acted alone.  In an interview with CBS This Morning, Haig says that police found an Amazon box with his address inside the Mandalay Bay hotel room from which Paddock sprayed the crowd at a country music festival with bullets and then took his own life.  "He told me exactly what he wanted," Haig said to CBS. "I handed him a box with the ammunition in it, he paid me and he left."  He said that he sold 720 rounds of tracer ammunition to Paddock and that Paddock said he was using it for a light show. The ammunition leaves a trace of light when shot. Haig said he had only spoken to Paddock three times.  "I'm still wracking my brain for what did I miss? Why didn't I pick this up?" Haig told CBS.  Haig has since shut down his business. He told The Associated Press that he plans to hold a press conference later this week.  What's unclear is whether Haig was only flagged as a person of interest in the early days of the investigation or whether he remains a person of interest. He is the only other name in the documents besides that of Stephen Paddock's girlfriend, Marilou Danley, who authorities now say will likely not face charges.  Police and the FBI wouldn't comment, citing the ongoing investigation. But Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo has made it clear that he believes Paddock acted alone. He has also said there may be unspecified federal charges coming for an unnamed person.  The documents released on Tuesday show that police originally believed Paddock didn't work alone and were searching for accomplices. But they still gave no hint of why Paddock amassed so many weapons and then used them to fire into a crowd of more than 22,000 concertgoers on the Las Vegas strip on Oct. 1.  The warrants repeat much of what was already in a preliminary police report released on Jan. 19 by the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department. Investigators found 23 rifles and a handgun in the two rooms on the 32nd floor that Paddock was in. They found rifle cases, binoculars, a scope, a portable solar generator, 1,050 empty bullet casings, and a vase and flowers Paddock bought from a Walmart.
	Nunes Memo Could Be Released Friday Following Nod From Trump	President Trump could formally tell Congress on Friday he endorses releasing the controversial document over the objections of Democrats and the FBI.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-655700420_wide-22b169981e19be2a85985fc14e97f08feed22207-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/2018/02/01/582379669/dems-charge-gop-secretly-altered-snooping-memo-sent-to-white-house-for-release	NPR	Nunes Memo Could Be Released Friday Following Nod From Trump  President Trump could notify Congress as soon as Friday that he endorses releasing the controversial memo that alleges the FBI and Justice Department abused their surveillance powers.  That would set the stage for it to become public, perhaps that afternoon, although the procedure is unclear.  Democrats went on the attack Thursday trying to stop the process and even to get rid of the man who has driven it, Trump ally Rep. Devin Nunes, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer demanded that House Speaker Paul Ryan pull Nunes from his job.  "Chairman Nunes' deliberately dishonest actions make him unfit to serve as chairman, and he must be immediately removed from this position," Pelosi wrote.  Ryan made clear that wasn't going to happen. He defended Nunes to reporters at congressional Republicans' retreat in West Virginia.  "I think they're just playing politics and I think they're looking for a political distraction," he said. Republicans' majority in the House means Nunes is in no danger.  A senior administration official told reporters traveling with President Trump that he has read the Nunes memo and that the White House appears on track to send it back down Pennsylvania Avenue to Nunes and his committee.  "The president is OK with it," the official said. "I doubt there will be any redactions. It's in Congress' hands after that."  What might happen once the file becomes public isn't clear. The FBI and Justice Department have objected to the document becoming public. But there was no way to know whether the release of the memo might simply be another turn of the screw or whether it could bring about more consequential changes in the intelligence world or the Justice Department.  The bureau said in a rare statement Wednesday that it has "grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo's accuracy."  The memo, prepared by Nunes and his staff, is part of a campaign by Trump's allies to prove that the FBI and Justice are biased and out to get the president.  Democrats call the document misleading and part of an effort to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller's probe into possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 elections.  The Intelligence Committee voted Monday along party lines to publicly release the four-page document prepared by Nunes, who served on the Trump transition team.  Democrats complained that Republicans used their majority to authorize the release of their memo but not a secret rebuttal prepared by ranking member Adam Schiff, D-Calif. He later charged late Wednesday that Nunes hadn't even sent the same memo to the White House that the full committee had voted on.  Schiff asked for the memo to be called back for a re-vote; Intelligence Committee spokesman Jack Langer dismissed that idea.  "In its increasingly strange attempt to thwart publication of the memo, the committee minority is now complaining about minor edits to the memo, including grammatical fixes and two edits requested by the FBI and by the Minority themselves," he said.  "The vote to release the memo was absolutely procedurally sound and in accordance with House and committee rules. To suggest otherwise is a bizarre distraction from the abuses detailed in the memo, which the public will hopefully soon be able to read for themselves."  A senior House Intelligence Committee Republican, Mike Conaway, told NPR that the memo's public release would likely be accomplished by publishing it in the Congressional Record. That can only be done when the House is in session. The House is scheduled to have a pro forma session Friday afternoon.
	Can Cooking Classes Keep Chronic Heart Failure Patients Out Of The Hospital?	At Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans, researchers are teaching heart disease sufferers what makes a healthy meal — and how to cook one. The program will monitor how this affects readmission rates.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/01/31/tu-test-kitchen_dsc_4735-50_wide-7ed7598e56f8784ea8005b6c143166597d611b6e-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2018/02/01/581891870/can-cooking-classes-keep-chronic-heart-failure-patients-out-of-the-hospital	NPR	Can Cooking Classes Keep Chronic Heart Failure Patients Out Of The Hospital?  Shirline Burbanks is one of the 6.5 million Americans suffering from congestive heart failure (CHF). Recently, she checked herself in to the Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans, complaining of shortness of breath. But unlike most other CHF patients in the U.S., within hours of her admittance, Burbanks was met at her bedside with an offer: to sign up for cooking classes.  The offer came from Colleen McCullough, a research coordinator at the Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine at Tulane. She started working last August to recruit people for the pilot phase of an 18-month study. Its goal is to determine whether the 30-day readmission rate for CHF patients, which is a whopping 22 percent, can be cut by almost half — all by teaching these patients how to make their own meals.  Many of McCullough's potential subjects have been eating loads of saturated fat and sodium their whole lives. Such habits can lead to conditions like high blood pressure and coronary artery disease, which may increase their likelihood of developing CHF, a chronic condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood and oxygen to the body's tissues. High amounts of fat and salt can aggravate CHF, trapping patients in a cycle of ongoing illness.  The condition is "a great one to intervene in," says Kristi Artz, a physician and culinary medicine specialist at healthcare organization Spectrum Health in Grand Rapids, Mich., one of 45 U.S.-based medical training programs that licenses Goldring's curriculum. "Unless these patients change their dietary behavior, over time their [CHF] just worsens. "  Fried, salty, sweet food is "such a cornerstone of New Orleans culture," says McCullough. "When I first start talking to patients" in the hospital — she's interviewed 120 so far and enrolled 60; 30 have taken classes upon being released — "they usually come clean about their diet pretty quickly." Teaching them to change their eating habits may seem like a simple fix, but as the Goldring research team knows, nothing could be further from the truth.  The battle begins before patients hear about the center's kitchen classroom. Many of them live below the poverty line. This sets them up for a multitude of hardships: food insecurity and poor access to nutrition, exacerbated by lousy public transportation. Mobility is often a problem: CHF sufferers can have a hard time walking because of breathing issues or swelling in their feet. In designing the study, Timothy Harlan, Goldring's executive director, wrote taxi vouchers into the grant request, to make it easier for patients to commute to and from Goldring's bright, large kitchen in the bustling Mid-City neighborhood.  With transportation streamlined, other challenges suddenly translate into strong selling points for the classes. "When you're food insecure, the fact that you can get free meals in addition to learning how to make them is pretty attractive," points out Leah Sarris, Goldring's head chef and program director.  The isolation many homebound CHF patients experience is another motivator, says McCullough. "They'll tell me, I have nothing else to do; sign me up for every class this week."  The CHF patients are folded into Goldring's usual 2-hour community classes (the center also runs classes for med students). Once in the kitchen, friendships born of shared medical experience quickly blossom. "They hug when they see each other, and cook in the same groups, and talk and text between classes," McCullough says.  According to Mary Ann McLaughlin, a cardiologist at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City, "Any time you have patients with severe chronic conditions, socialization has an important impact. Food bonds people, and they can learn from each other, and share their fears and concerns."  The CHF students have severe restrictions on sodium, and also on fluid intake, because they retain it. Says Sarris, "That basically means we don't teach them how to make soup." What she does teach them is how to make pasta sauces that substitute mushrooms or lentils for red meat. Or New Orleans' favorite red beans and rice, which gets its deep layers of flavor from spices like smoked paprika, rather than pickled pork and sausage.  The classes focus on more than tweaking dishes, though. Sarris explains they often must guide students — many of whom do not know how to cook, and may not read beyond a fourth-grade level — through nutritional basics, using lots of visual aids. They also learn how to shop on a budget, use one bag of rice to make multiple meals, and freeze leftovers. "But more than anything," she says, "we're teaching them kitchen confidence."  The second, more scientifically rigorous leg of the study will likely begin this month, and use randomized controls. They'll enroll 20 CHF patients, half of whom will take classes; the other half will not. Then, says McCullough, "We'll compare readmissions." After the first phase, some folks checked back into the hospital. Those numbers, and the reasons for dropouts, have not yet been assessed, but McCullough says most participants have managed to stay readmission-free.  If that continues for the remainder of the study, the Goldring researchers will consider it a win — both for the health of CHF patients, and the center's fiscal future. Hospitals aren't reimbursed for CHF readmissions that happen within a month. So even a 10 percent drop in rates, explains Harlan, "would fund all of Goldring's programming, full stop."  Other health professionals are also awaiting Goldring's CHF research outcomes. "Up to this point, we've just been focused on disease care," says Spectrum's Artz. "If we could implement [culinary] programs as part of standard medical treatment, we could give out food prescriptions. That's where I hope this leads."  The Goldring pilot has already engendered small successes. "I had one 50-year-old patient who in 20 years had never cooked for her husband before," says Sarris. "We gave her the support to try it, and the effects were pretty profound. Before she took classes, chopping veggies seemed overwhelming to her."  Meanwhile, Burbanks has come close to becoming a vegetarian — even though she hadn't heard the word before she came to class. "She's constantly reworking her gumbo recipe now, and she texts me pictures as if she's asking, "Will you validate this?" says McCullough. "Yeah, I can do that."  Lela Nargi is a Brooklyn-based journalist and cookbook author. Her writing has appeared in publications including Gastronomica, Civil Eats and Roads & Kingdoms.
	Indiana's Brand Of Medicaid Drops 25,000 People For Failure To Pay Premiums	The state built some key conservative policies into its experimental expansion of Medicaid. Lawmakers, health officials and patient advocates across the U.S. are now keenly watching the results.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/mike-pence-hip_wide-5f24d29f106f3602f6086b6ec4cd5997afe6217a-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2018/02/01/582295740/indianas-brand-of-medicaid-drops-25-000-people-for-failure-to-pay-premiums	NPR	Indiana's Brand Of Medicaid Drops 25,000 People For Failure To Pay Premiums  As the Trump administration moves to give states more flexibility in running Medicaid, advocates for the poor are keeping a close eye on Indiana to see whether such conservative ideas improve or harm care.  Indiana in 2015 implemented some of the most radical changes seen to the state-federal program that covers nearly 1 in 4 low-income Americans — including charging some adults a monthly premium and locking out for six months some of those who don't pay their premiums.  The changes were a part of Indiana's deal with the Obama administration to expand Medicaid eligibility, adding about 240,000 Hoosiers to the Medicaid rolls under the Affordable Care Act.  The controversial monthly fees and lockout provisions were spearheaded by then-Gov. Mike Pence, now vice president, and his top health consultant, Seema Verma, now head of the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.  That demonstration project, known as Healthy Indiana, is up for renewal in February; state officials seek to add work requirements similar to what CMS approved for Kentucky last month and to widen who is subject to lockouts.  With CMS expected to approve Indiana's renewal in the coming days, much remains unknown about how well Healthy Indiana is working, such as whether it has improved the efficiency of Medicaid.  But some results are in.  About 25,000 adults were kicked off the Healthy Indiana rolls, between its start in 2015 and October 2017, for failure to pay their premiums, according to state reports. Yet state officials estimate, based on surveys of recipients, that about half of those people found another source of coverage, most often through a job.  During the first two years of the experiment, about 10,000 Indiana Medicaid enrollees were subject to the six-month lockout for failing to pay the premium for two months in a row. The state did not provide lockout data for 2017.  While premiums are required of all adults added under the expansion, the lockouts apply only to those with incomes from 101 percent to 138 percent of the federal poverty level (about $12,200 to $16,600 for an individual). People with lower incomes — more than 80 percent of Healthy Indiana enrollees — lose their vision and dental benefits for failing to pay the premium.  Several Republican-controlled states that expanded Medicaid have followed Indiana to adopt premiums. And the Indiana model is also attracting attention from some of the 19 conservative states that are leery of expanding Medicaid.  Yet the possibilities of spreading the Indiana model worry Medicaid advocates, who fear that it can lead to Americans who don't make much money missing out on care.  Joe Moser, who was Indiana's Medicaid director when the program was instituted and is now a consultant, says the expansion is achieving many of its goals — including reducing Medicaid enrollees' use of hospital emergency rooms for non-emergencies, and enticing more people to opt for preventive services to stave off more expensive care later.  State officials promoted the monthly premiums and lockout features as a way to give Medicaid enrollees "skin in the game" so they would make better health care decisions.  "The lockouts give a powerful incentive for people to continue paying for their health care," Moser says.  The provisions were key to winning enough political support in Indiana to expand Medicaid.  Susan Jo Thomas, executive director of Covering Kids and Families of Indiana, an advocacy group, says even without knowing the effect of the premiums and lockouts, the Medicaid expansion was still worth it. "It's literally saved lives," she says. "To me the lesson is, it's been worth a try to do a demonstration project to increase access," she adds. "It would never have sold politically, if we didn't do this. ... Sometimes you have to settle for getting three-quarters of a loaf of bread rather than getting no bread at all."  Mirroring national trends following implementation of the health law, Indiana's uninsured rate has dropped from 14 percent in 2013 to 8 percent last year.  Now, advocates for the poor worry that the Trump administration is poised to grant Indiana a long-term extension of the Healthy Indiana expansion — and add a requirement that nondisabled adults work or volunteer 20 hours a week. The state also seeks federal permission to lock out — regardless of income level —any adults who fail to renew their coverage in a timely manner.  Those changes would "be a big step backwards," says Joan Alker, executive director of the Georgetown University Center for Children and Families.  "The problem is, when people lose their coverage or get locked out, she says, "their health needs do not go away."  In addition to those who were removed from Healthy Indiana for failure to keep up with payments, another 46,000 adults who signed up for Medicaid during 2016 and 2017 weren't accepted because they did not pay their initial premium, the state reports.  These premium payments go into special health savings accounts, for enrollees to cover some medical expenses. Monthly contributions, based on income, range from $1 to $27. About half of current enrollees pay $1.  Thomas says one of the biggest benefits of the state's Medicaid expansion had nothing to do with new requirements of beneficiaries. Rather, the state's decision to increase pay to doctors to the same rates that Medicare offers has resulted in many more specialists to treat Medicaid recipients, and reduced access problems.  There are many unanswered questions about the effect of the state's Medicaid expansion, says Kosali Simon, an economist at Indiana University, such as whether the added premiums make enrollees better health shoppers. And there is no evidence, she says, that the Indiana strategy is more cost-efficient than traditional Medicaid.  Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Phil Galewitz is a senior correspondent for KHN.
	'We Swipe Left' On Tinder's 'Discriminatory' Pricing, Court Says	A California appeals court said Tinder had to stop charging more for people age 30 and over to use its Tinder Plus premium service, saying it was discriminatory.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-625496334_wide-5def502b94af1df14e01d5c54e8bea331b3ad051-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/582351802/we-swipe-left-on-tinder-s-discriminatory-pricing-court-says	NPR	'We Swipe Left' On Tinder's 'Discriminatory' Pricing, Court Says  A California appeals court has found the dating app Tinder's pricing model to be discriminatory and says the company must stop charging older customers more for its paid premium service.  Tinder has argued that the pricing difference on its Tinder Plus service was based on market research finding "customers age 30 and younger have less capacity to pay for premium services" and they "need a lower price to pull the trigger."  But Judge Brian Currey, writing for California's 2nd District Court of Appeal earlier this week, wrote that Tinder "employs an arbitrary, class-based, generalization about older users' incomes as a basis for charging them more than younger users."  As NPR's Sam Sanders reported in 2015, the company charged users age 30 and older $19.99 per month for Tinder Plus, while people under 30 only had to pay $9.99 or $14.99. (The court says it's unclear whether 30-year-olds were part of the first or second group, but says it's irrelevant.)  The paid service offers benefits that are not part of the normal free service.  The lawsuit was first filed in February 2016.  Tinder user Allan Candelore brought the lawsuit, saying the pricing difference violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act, a 1959 California law that "secures equal access to public accommodations and prohibits discrimination by business establishments," as the court describes it. The lawsuit also claimed Tinder violated the Unfair Competition Law which the court said "prohibits, and provides civil remedies for, 'unfair competition,' which includes 'any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.' "  The appellate court largely agreed: "No matter what Tinder's market research may have shown about the younger users' relative income and willingness to pay for the service, as a group, as compared to the older cohort, some individuals will not fit the mold. Some older consumers will be 'more budget constrained' and less willing to pay than some in the younger group," the judge wrote.  The dating app popularized the notions of swiping right and left on potential partners — right for yes, left for no. The appeals court decision, which was a reversal of a lower court's decision to dismiss the case, was written in a manner befitting the app.  "Accordingly, we swipe left, and reverse."
	Was Your Seafood Caught With Slave Labor? New Database Helps Retailers Combat Abuse	Many seafood lovers use the Monterey Bay Aquarium's ratings to choose sustainable fish. Now it has rolled out a tool to help corporations assess the risk of human trafficking in seafood supply chains.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-507991468-50_wide-7c68bc4f411cba7b7d60a84cb9423ac56ddb4b23-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2018/02/01/582214032/was-your-seafood-caught-with-slave-labor-new-database-helps-retailers-combat-abu	NPR	Was Your Seafood Caught With Slave Labor? New Database Helps Retailers Combat Abuse  The Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch program, known best for its red, yellow and green sustainable seafood-rating scheme, is unveiling its first Seafood Slavery Risk Tool on Thursday. It's a database designed to help corporate seafood buyers assess the risk of forced labor, human trafficking and hazardous child labor in the seafood they purchase.  The tool's release comes on the heels of a new report that confirms forced labor and human rights abuses remain embedded in Thailand's fishing industry, years after global media outlets first documented the practice.  The 134-page report by Human Rights Watch shows horrific conditions continue. That's despite promises from the Thai government to crack down on abuses suffered by mostly migrants from countries like Myanmar and Cambodia — and despite pressure from the U.S. and European countries that purchase much of Thailand's seafood exports. (Thailand is the fourth-largest seafood exporter in the world).  For U.S. retailers and seafood importers, ferreting slavery out of the supply chain has proved exceedingly difficult. Fishing occurs far from shore, often out of sight, while exploitation and abuse on vessels stem from very complex social and economic dynamics.  "Companies didn't know how to navigate solving the problem," says Sara McDonald, Seafood Watch project manager for the Slavery Risk Tool.  The new Seafood Watch database, which took two years to design, assigns slavery risk ratings to specific fisheries and was developed in collaboration with Liberty Asia and the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership. Like Seafood Watch's color-coded ratings, the Seafood Slavery Risk Tool aims to keep it simple — a set criteria determines whether a fishery will earn a critical, high, moderate or low risk rating.  A "critical risk" rating, for example, means credible evidence of forced labor or child labor has been found within the fishery itself. Albacore, skipjack and yellowfin tuna caught by the Taiwanese fleet gets a critical risk rating. A "low risk" fishery, like Patagonian toothfish in Chile (also known as Chilean seabass), is one with good regulatory protections and enforcement, with no evidence of abuses in related industries.  Until recently, environmental concerns dominated most of the conversation around sustainable seafood. Issues like overfishing, mangrove destruction, pollution and illegal fishing determined whether a seafood item was deemed one to enjoy or avoid.  But when reports began to surface in 2014 and 2015 that seafood harvested or processed by forced labor was making it into the supply chains of major U.S. retailers like Walmart, Kroger, Safeway and restaurants like Red Lobster, corporations were quick to make public commitments and include stronger language in their supplier guidelines in hopes of addressing the problem. Delivering on those promises, however, has proved harder. Traceability alone hasn't been enough. Until now, retailers have had few tools to make it easier to identify which fisheries are actually at higher risk for human rights abuses.  It's a lament heard by Seafood Watch and others.  "The companies knew their supply chains weren't transparent. They were obviously embarrassed and humiliated by being called out," says Duncan Jepson, founder of Liberty Asia, a nongovernmental organization that focuses on preventing human trafficking. He adds that the incentive for businesses to use the new Seafood Watch tool is obvious. "From our perspective, the question now is, do you want to be involved or exposed to people earning their profits from these types of environments?"  Maisie Ganzler is chief strategy and brand officer at Bon Appétit Management Company and oversees the food service company's supply chain and purchasing standards. She says it's difficult for any company to get assurances that the product it's buying was produced without slave labor. Distance, language and cultural barriers, murky supply chains where seafood changes hands multiple times — all make the problem harder. She says America's country-of-origin labeling system, which labels where a tuna is canned but not where it is caught, also muddies the waters.  "And then you have the high prevalence of fraud, and I don't mean species fraud," says Ganzler. "If you're willing to enslave another human being or throw a worker overboard, are you willing to also falsify the papers that come with the fish? Probably. These are the most hidden issues in the farthest reaches of the world. It's super hard."  McDonald of Seafood Watch says the data behind the new risk tool come from reliable government and media reports of known abuses; incidences of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing; the number of days a fishing vessel is at sea; and more. The tool also considers other indicators, like whether there is evidence of forced labor, human trafficking and child labor in a country's other sectors — such as forestry, agriculture and aquaculture. That increases the likelihood that these abuses could be happening in fisheries as well, she says.  Unlike the aquarium's Seafood Watch app, the new Seafood Slavery Risk tool will not advise retailers to purchase one species over another. Instead, "we say: stay, engage and create change in the industry by working with suppliers to change their practices," says McDonald. "With Seafood Watch, we have a lot of advice on what to purchase and what not, but it's very different with human rights abuses. If you boycott or avoid or stop purchasing, it drives it underground. Every human rights expert we talked with says you can't boycott, you have to keep it out in the sunshine. That's the only way to make a difference."  But many retailers are already skittish about talking openly about slavery in the seafood industry, and it's unclear how they'll address these issues with their own customers. Kroger, Safeway, Whole Foods, Hy-Vee, Walmart and Red Lobster did not respond or declined our requests for an interview for this story.  "No retailer is going to go out and talk much about the fact that there are labor rights issues in the supply chain, but it's critical that retailers stay in the game and continue to be involved," says Dick Jones, CEO of Ocean Outcomes, an international NGO focused on improving fisheries and fish farms in Northeast Asia. He likens it to the routine testing that retailers do for E. coli in ground beef. "They don't tell their customers there's a risk. They just do it because it's the right thing to do," he says.  Other groups are also working on tools to help businesses avoid human rights abuses in their supply chains. The Slavery and Trafficking Risk Template is an open-source project by the Social Responsibility Alliance to help companies build socially responsible supply chains. Labor Safe Screen, developed by the Sustainability Incubator, is focused specifically on seafood products.  "The reality is that no company right now can be 100 percent sure there's no slavery in the supply chain," says Ganzler. "All companies need to band together to work on the issue, along with the government. It really is an issue that governments are going to have to take action on."  Clare Leschin-Hoar is a journalist based in San Diego who covers food policy and sustainability issues.  This story was produced in collaboration with the Food & Environment Reporting Network (FERN), a nonprofit investigative journalism organization.
	San Francisco To Dismiss Thousands Of Marijuana Convictions	The city's district attorney says his office will be dismissing more than 3,000 misdemeanor convictions and reconsidering thousands of felonies, going back more than 40 years.	https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/02/01/gettyimages-71433270_wide-900f16d899fe39da61ae78a2df5af810f0d539ec-s300-c15.jpg	https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/02/01/582336999/san-francisco-to-dismiss-thousands-of-marijuana-convictions	NPR	Prosecutors in San Francisco will throw out thousands of marijuana-related convictions of residents dating back to 1975.  San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón said Wednesday that his office will dismiss and seal 3,038 misdemeanor convictions dating back before the state's legalization of marijuana went into effect, with no action necessary from those who were convicted.  Prosecutors will also review up to 4,940 felony convictions and consider reducing them to misdemeanors.  Petitioning to have a record expunged has been in place, but can be costly and it can require legal help, Gascón said in a statement. He said only 23 petitions were filed this past year in the city.  "A criminal conviction can be a barrier to employment, housing and other benefits, so instead of waiting for the community to take action, we're taking action for the community," he added.  Gascón's office also noted racial discrepancies in marijuana arrests and sentencing. In 2000, African-Americans were 7.8 percent of San Francisco's population but comprised 41 percent of marijuana arrests. By 2010 and 2011, African-Americans made up about half of the marijuana-related arrests, yet represented only 6 percent of the city's population, according to the district attorney's office.  In his statement, Gascón said San Francisco was "taking the lead to undo the damage that this country's disastrous, failed drug war has had on our nation and on communities of color in particular."  Stores in California began selling recreational marijuana to adults legally at the beginning of this year after voters approved Proposition 64, in November 2016.  Nine states and Washington, D.C. have legalized the recreational use of marijuana —and 29 states and D.C. have laws allowing "comprehensive" legal medical marijuana programs, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.  At least nine states also have laws "addressing expungement" of some types of marijuana convictions, the group says.
	Democrats Embraced a Flawed Dossier—And Gave Republicans an Opening	How the Democratic Party backed itself into a corner on Russiagate--even though the scandal is all too real.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/02/01/russia-steele-dossier-democrats-republicans-216921	Politico	Sometime around May 2016, according to the New York Times, the long-time law firm for the Democratic Party, Perkins Coie, engaged the private research firm Fusion GPS to conduct opposition research on Donald Trump. While the engagement might have been better handled (say, by insulating the official party apparatus better from Fusion), the act of commissioning the firm should not shock us—opposition research is a pretty standard feature of modern politics. Indeed, months earlier in September or October 2015, the Washington Free Beacon, which is funded in part by billionaire Paul Singer, had engaged Fusion GPS to dig up dirt on Trump. And while Democrats were working with Fusion, Republicans were working with a Steve Bannon enterprise to dig up financial dirt on Hillary Clinton and expose the alleged influence-peddling of her family’s foundation.  Fusion, of course, then took its research in a new direction by hiring Christopher Steele, a former top British intelligence official with deep ties in Moscow who was held in high regard in Washington. He produced a series of salacious, but unverified reports that are now universally referred to as “the Steele dossier,” and their publication 10 days before Trump’s inauguration supercharged claims on the left that the president or his team may have conspired with Russia to win the 2016 election.  Yet, in part because of the way Democrats have handled the aftermath of the leak of the dossier, that very typical act of hiring an oppo research firm has turned into one of the biggest manufactured scandals of the Trump administration, one Republicans are trying to use to undermine an investigation into the growing evidence of Trump ties to Russia. But Steele’s dossier forms only a small portion of the putative case against Trump—which is why it has been such a mistake for Democrats to rally behind it. Reporters, two congressional committees and Special Counsel Robert Mueller have sifted through reams of other material suggesting that something fishy was indeed going on, and very little of it came from Steele.  Yet Democrats continue to invest in the intelligence dossier they funded as a key piece of evidence against Trump. They do so even while other, far more damning evidence -- such as the report that George Papadopoulos learned Russians had “dirt,” in the form of Hillary emails even before the DNC figured out they had been hacked, or the meeting Donald Trump Jr. set up six weeks later to learn what kind of dirt some other Russians had to offer (“If it’s what you say I love it,” he wrote in an email) -- has come to light. Well after both those damning details were public, for example, Rachel Maddow dedicated an entire show to the dossier. In November, former Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta claimed the dossier was “looking better and better with age.” In that same time frame, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, complained, “Those who attack the dossier and Christopher Steele would like you to believe that if they can discredit the dossier, then you should ignore everything else that we’ve learned,” even while insisting, “A lot of it has turned out to be true.” Yet this week, the Senate Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat told Politico, “little of that dossier has either been fully proven or conversely, disproven.”  As far as is public, however, key claims in the dossier amount to near misses rather than corroborated facts. The dossier notes the contemporaneously reported fact that sometime Trump foreign policy advisor Carter Page traveled to Moscow in July 2016, for example. But it describes him as meeting with different Russians, Igor Sechin and Igor Diveykin, than those he has admitted to meeting, Arkadiy Dvorkovich and Andrey Baranov. The dossier describes Trump lawyer Michael Cohen cleaning up matters with the Russians in an August meeting in Prague, when he is instead known to have traveled to a different European city, London, in October. Cohen says he was elsewhere in August, and there’s no evidence he traveled to Prague.  On the key issue of computer hacking, the dossier is particularly weak. Even after Guccifer 2.0, believed to be a persona working on behalf of Russia, started leaking stolen documents, a dossier report stated that any compromising information Russia might leak consisted of “bugged conversations she [Clinton] had on various visits to Russia and intercepted phone calls,” not stolen emails. A report on Russia’s hacking efforts released after WikiLeaks had already dumped emails stolen from the DNC claimed that, “a senior government figure reported that [Russia had had] only limited success in penetrating the ‘first tier’ foreign targets … like G7 and NATO governments.” This, in spite of the fact that an April 2015 report revealed that, “Russian hackers have ‘owned’ the State Department system for months and it is not clear the hackers have been fully eradicated from the system” and from there had compromised unclassified White House systems. A widely read September 2015 technical report also described Russia’s success targeting Western governments.  The dossier may be worse than just uncorroborated. In an op-ed this week, former CIA officer Daniel Hoffman wrote that the near misses in the dossier bore the mark of Russian disinformation, “accurate basic facts provided as bait to convince Americans that the fake info is real.” That’s the same intriguing theory floated by the British journalist Ben McIntyre, an expert on intelligence who has described the idea like so: “They set up an ex-MI6 guy, Chris Steele, who is a patsy, effectively, and they feed him some stuff that’s true, and some stuff that isn’t true, and some stuff that is demonstrably wrong.”  Trump’s associates are even using the near misses in the dossier to dismiss real evidence of their involvement with Russia. When Cohen showed that his passport bore no sign of European travel in August 2016 and therefore he couldn’t have attended the Prague meeting described in the dossier, he treated that as a denial he had ever worked to clean up matters with the Russians. Even after evidence surfaced that Cohen had discussed branding a Trump Tower in Moscow in late 2015—at the height of the Republican presidential primary—as part of a deal that sometime Trump dealmaker Felix Sater said, “will get Donald elected,” Cohen dismissed claims he colluded with Russia with a letter that mostly stated “he has never traveled to Prague” over and over.  And if the dossier is disinformation, it may have led Democrats to make poor decisions. In testimony to Congress, Fusion founder Glenn Simpson described how, as Democrats learned they had been hacked, the dossier became “an effort to help my client manage a, you know, exceptional situation and understand what the heck was going on.” If Democrats used the dossier to decide how to respond to the hack, they would have been lulled into complacency, because Steele’s reporting said any dirt being dealt to Republicans consisted of old intercepts, not recently stolen emails.  Still, if it weren’t for how the Democrats hid their own actions in the dossier for most of last year, the quality of the dossier, which after all was compiled by a former spook with a good track record, might not matter.  For months, Democrats misled reporters about the role of their presidential candidate and the party in funding the research. While it had been reported that, first, a GOP rival to Trump and, then, someone acting on behalf of Clinton had funded the dossier, it wasn’t until October that Perkins Coie admitted its role in funding the dossier on the Democrats’ behalf. It took months of legal wrangling -- in lawsuits filed on both sides of the Atlantic by Russian-owned companies described in the dossier, in a fight over the extent of Simpson’s testimony to congressional committees, and in Fusion’s effort to quash a subpoena for its financial records -- before Democrats made the admission. The delay only ratcheted up the interest in information that otherwise would be quite routine.  Presumably, Democrats hid details of their funding of the dossier to hide how Steele shared his research, as well as a companion dossier done by long-time Clinton oppo researcher Cody Shearer, with the FBI.  Again, there’s nothing unusual about that. Steele has shared his intelligence work with both the FBI and State Department in the past, most successfully in DOJ’s pursuit of corruption in FIFA.  According to a New York Times report, the FBI even used the Bannon-backed book, Clinton Cash, to develop leads for an investigation into the Clinton Foundation. Many of the leads in the investigation into Bill Clinton during his presidency came out of Republican oppo research.  Even FISA applications, which is what is at issue in a House Intelligence Committee memo complaining about an abuse of the process, can rely on dubious sources, including intelligence informants with far more selfish motives than those Steele is reported to have had when, out of worry that the U.S. might be compromised, he first shared his findings with the FBI. And, as self-described Fourth Amendment nerd (and constitutional lawyer) Orin Kerr laid out this week, “when federal judges have faced similar claims [of informant bias] in litigation, they have mostly rejected them out of hand.”  Ultimately, the Democrats’ reluctance to own this oppo research has created an opportunity for Republicans to attack the dossier as a stand-in for the entire special counsel investigation.  Ironically, according to a Politico report from last May, the initial architect of that strategy may have been Paul Manafort, Trump’s campaign chair during that June 9 meeting entertaining offers of “dirt” on Hillary Clinton from well-connected Russians. In the weeks after the dossier first got leaked, Manafort called Reince Priebus, then the chief of staff, and “suggested the errors in the dossier discredited it, as well as the FBI investigation, since the bureau had reached a tentative (but later aborted) agreement to pay the former British spy to continue his research and had briefed both Trump and then-President Barack Obama on the dossier.”  According to a mid-January status report in the case against Manafort and his deputy, Rick Gates, the government has turned over “more than 590,000 items” to his defense team, “including (but not limited to) financial records, records from vendors identified in the indictment, email communications involving the defendants, and corporate records.” He and Gates have received imaged copies of 87 laptops, phones, and thumb drives, and copies off 19 search-warrant applications. He has not received, however, a FISA notice, which the government would be required to provide if they planned to use anything acquired using evidence obtained using the reported FISA warrant against Manafort. That’s evidence of just how much of a distraction Manafort’s strategy is, of turning the dossier into a surrogate for the far more substantive case against him and others.  And it’s not just Manafort. Not a single thing in the George Papadopoulos and Michael Flynn guilty pleas—for lying to the FBI—stems from any recognizable mention in the dossier, either. Even if the Steele dossier were a poisoned fruit, rather than the kind of routine oppo research that Republicans themselves had pushed to the FBI to support investigations, Mueller has planted an entirely new tree blooming with incriminating details.
	The One Phone Call Qatar Desperately Wants Donald Trump to Make	For months, America has been caught in the middle of an ugly family feud in the Persian Gulf. A Global POLITICO debrief on the crisis with one of Qatar’s leaders.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/02/01/khalid-bin-mohammad-al-attiyah-the-full-transcript-216559	Politico	Subscribe to The Global POLITICO on Apple Podcasts here. | Subscribe via Stitcher here.  Top officials from the tiny, embattled Persian Gulf emirate of Qatar came to Washington this week with a simple message to President Donald Trump: You can solve the regional crisis that has seen it blockaded by all their neighbors with a single phone call.  “The sooner, the better, the phone call,” says Qatar’s deputy prime minister and defense minister Khalid bin Mohammed Al Attiyah in an exclusive interview for The Global POLITICO, his first extensive comments to a U.S. journalist since the crisis began. But Trump hasn’t made the call yet even as America has been dragged right into the middle of what Al Attiyah calls this “family feud” in the Persian Gulf.  For months, Washington has watched with a combination of dismay and concern as the princely leaders of the Gulf have erupted against each other, with several major U.S. allies in the region—Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Bahrain—teaming up to impose a blockade on their neighbor Qatar. Qatar is also a key U.S. ally—and in fact hosts the largest American military base in the region, Al Udeid. Since the crisis, Qatar has been literally cut off from its main landline to the rest of the world through Saudi Arabia, and has turned increasingly to U.S. adversaries like Iran and Russia.  In other words, it’s a geopolitical nightmare for America in the midst of the already volatile Middle East.  On top of all that, the crisis exposed fissures and fault lines between Trump and his national security team, with Trump early on tweeting his way right into the middle of the crisis—on the side of Qatar’s enemies—even as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis sought to calm tensions.  Months later, diplomacy has failed, Trump is no longer tweeting about it, and many of Qatar’s top officials were in Washington this week to lobby the administration on their behalf after a friendly phone call between Trump and their leader, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, earlier this month. Tillerson and Mattis “gave them a great welcome, and the Qataris must think it’s Christmas here in Washington for them,” says Simon Henderson, a veteran Gulf watcher at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “Back when the crisis erupted, it seemed that Trump had anointed the Saudi-Emirati perspective. Now they’ve recalibrated a bit.”  But the crisis is far from over, as the conversation with Al Attiyah, a key player from the start of the blockade, makes clear. While pleading with Trump to intervene, Al Attiyah acknowledges that American support from the president could be “louder,” warns that the entire Gulf Cooperation Council—the key regional security group—could fall apart unless a resolution is found, and confirms that Qatar is relying on help from Iran and considering purchasing a major Russian anti-missile system, the S-400.  Still, Al Attiyah clearly sees Qatar’s future harnessed to its alliance with the United States—and has a key chip in the Al Udeid air base, currently housing some 11,000 U.S. troops, whose presence in Qatar he now proposes to make “permanent,” despite the American political allergy to anything that smacks of perpetual engagement in the troubled region.  I found his perspective on how Trump’s administration really works to be particularly illuminating when I asked whether the Saudis and Emiratis had initially thought they prevailed in Washington because of Trump’s tweets and his son-in-law Jared Kushner’s close ties to the young Saudi crown prince.  “One of the elements which made their plan to fail,” Al Attiyah says in the interview (he refused even to name the countries lined up against Qatar throughout our conversation), “is that they did not account for the United States as an institutional country, and the White House, the Department of State, and the DOD—they always consult with each other, and they run the country as an institutional country, so it’s not something where they think an individual can take a decision.”  In other words, I said, they thought they had the White House wired, and were surprised to find that wasn’t the end of the story as far as U.S. policy?  “This is what shocked them,” Al Attiyah replied, “because they found out that America does not work the way they think it does.”  You can read the rest of our conversation, which took place Tuesday evening in Washington, below.    Susan B. Glasser: Thank you. Once again, this Susan Glasser, and The Global POLITICO, and welcome back to all our listeners. We have a very special guest today, I want to say, and a special edition of The Global POLITICO. This week it was what the heck is going on in the Russiagate investigation. This episode is better titled, What the Heck Is Going On in the Gulf? episode.  We have joining us the minister of defense for Qatar, who is here in Washington, Minister Al Attiyah. He has been meeting today with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, people who know Qatar well, know the situation well. Tell our listeners, sir, what is going on?  Al Attiyah: Thank you, Susan. You know, before we discuss the detail of each incident, we should just go quickly back and understand what happened back in late May. We met in Riyadh, and we met with President Trump. The meeting went well.  Glasser: And you were there?  Al Attiyah: And I was there, myself, yes. Nothing was on the horizon to indicate there was trouble or somebody was not happy with us.  Glasser: So I was told that there was one meeting at which there was some dissatisfaction on the part of President Trump and others with Qatar’s position. Is that not accurate?  Al Attiyah: No, no. Not at all. We didn’t feel anything. As I told you, we felt that we’d been deceived, and when we came back from Riyadh after having a good time together—we had lunch together and everything was fine—next day, they attacked and hacked our news agency, and they started throwing some false statements, as if it’s from His Highness, the Emir of Qatar.  And according to this statement, they took the position, regardless of us denying what has been there, and we informed them at that time that this was false news. We got the assistance of our colleagues from the United States, the FBI, they did the investigation. They found out that the agency was hacked, but they did nothing because it was a pre-arranged campaign. And simply, we’d been ambushed by them, by the neighboring country, and they started a very severe blockade against Qatar. They closed the only land border between us and Saudi; they closed all the airways. You know, they tried to suffocate the Qataris.  Glasser: And it continues to this day?  Glasser: Do you think that the Americans were given any indication in their meetings in Riyadh of this?  Al Attiyah: No, not of what I knew when I was there. As I told you, things were going smoothly; we discussed everything. In fact, President Trump said he was impressed His Highness, the Emir, of his effort in countering terrorism at that time, loudly, in front of everybody. And simply, when we came back they decided that they would like to start attacking Qatar.  Glasser: Do you believe they were close to taking military action against you?  Al Attiyah: I believe yes. I believe they were so close to have a military intervention at that time.  Al Attiyah: So many reasons stopped them, to be honest with you. One, the plan. I don’t think the plan went the way they wanted because they saw the reaction of the Qatari people, and from this place I salute our people for their loyalty to their country and to their government, and secondly, they are resilient, the Qatari people are resilient—showed the world that they’d rather die if they don’t live free.  Glasser: Tell us about the role of Washington in this? There’s a sense that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, he is obviously very familiar with Qatar from his time as ExxonMobil CEO. Obviously, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis is very familiar with Qatar because of the Al Udeid Base and his long personal ties to the country. But a sense that perhaps in the White House, President Trump, his son-in-law Jared Kushner, were very wired into the Saudis. The president even tweeted early on what appeared to be support for their position. That makes it very difficult for you to navigate.  Al Attiyah: No, it’s not exactly accurate, because one of the elements which made their plan to fail is that they did not account for the United States as an institutional country, and the White House, the Department of State, and the DOD—they always consult with each other, and they run the country as an institutional country, so it’s not something where they think an individual can take a decision.  Glasser: Right. So, they thought that they could just get sort of an individual in the White House to be supportive, and that it would change American policy?  Al Attiyah: And this is what shocked them, because they found out that America does not work the way they think it does.  Glasser: So, now, I saw you give a very interesting talk the other day here, and you said you think President Trump could solve this whole mess in just one phone call. Who is the phone call to, and what does he say in it?  Al Attiyah: Definitely not for us, he wouldn’t call.  Glasser: He doesn’t need to call you?  Al Attiyah: But, I think it’s been pretty long now, and it is affecting the social fabric of the region, and the region is very tied to each other in the social level. And what they did is, really, they damaged this fabric, and it’s been too long now, for nothing. So, this is why I referred that—  Glasser: What do you think President Trump should say?  Al Attiyah: I think we need to have the voice be a louder voice, to make things work with the neighbors.  Glasser: After your meetings here, do you feel that that’s a possibility?  Al Attiyah: Yes, I think our colleagues in the United States have understood that what’s going on there is disturbing our joint efforts and operations to counter terrorism. Today we are facing a strange enemy, an unconventional enemy, and that needs everybody to be together, and everybody should talk together, and be hand-in-hand to combat this enemy.  We’ve been here to hold our first strategic dialogue. This is the first meeting at this level to be held between Qatar and the United States, and this is just to reaffirm the strategic relation between us and the United States. So, we’ve been talking about all fields of interest between the two countries: the economy, the investment, the defense—which is military-to-military relations—and the CT, counterterrorism, and you know, counterterrorism finance, as well. So, we touched on all the subjects which is concerning the relation between the two countries.  Glasser: And you, of course, have the Al Udeid Air Base situated in Qatar, which is the most important U.S. military facility in the Middle East. You are interested in working with the Americans, as I understand it, to even consider making that base permanent. Is that right?  Al Attiyah: Absolutely right. As you know, Susan, we have 11,000 of your brave men and women who are working in Qatar at the Al Udeid Air Base, and we want to make their stay comfortable, so we have discussed together how to transfer this air base from being temporary to become a permanent air base by building more houses, schools, and all the necessary needs to make it comfortable to our American colleagues who live there.  Glasser: But it’s a little bit politically sensitive here in the United States, the idea of a permanent presence in the Middle East, even though we’ve been there, of course, for many, many years.  Al Attiyah: Well, if we don’t want to use the word “permanent,” then we want to use the word “comfortable.” Comfortable to stay, because they are doing a great job there. We are working side-by-side countering terrorism together, and fighting together. Unfortunately, the dispute in the Gulf is not helping; it’s disturbing this operation one way or another. But, at least we have to do something to make our colleagues comfortable while they are staying there.  Glasser: What are some of the direct consequences on the base, on the U.S. troops stationed there, of this current dispute that you have with some of your neighbors?  Al Attiyah: You know, CT operation always will require an exchange of information, and this is a very important element, and with the situation with our neighbors that we have a lack of communication or no communication at all, this is really not helping the operation and is disturbing, in all  Glasser: Just on this end game, though, are you any closer to bringing it to an end than you were a month ago? Are there any talks that we’re not, you know—  Al Attiyah: Well, let’s see it from a different perspective. We started this—they started this against Qatar, and at that time we were heavily dependent on them, on our food and our medicine. Today, after eight months, I can tell you that we are fully independent from the country who decided to have war with us, so now—  Glasser: I love that picture of the cows coming off the airplane to bring the milk.  Al Attiyah: Yes. You see, we have now good, fresh milk coming from Europe. So you can imagine how this will reflect on our—  Glasser: You don’t want to get Saudi milk back?  Glasser: No, but, more seriously, though, is there any indication or anything that perhaps we’re not seeing here, that suggests a path forward?  Al Attiyah: We’ve been calling for a dialogue since day one, and we keep insisting that the only way out of this is through dialogue. We said before, we say now, and we will keep saying this tomorrow, that we are open, and if you come forward to the dialogue, you can put on the table whatever things you think is concerning you. The only thing which we don’t accept in Qatar that precondition and to come to a table where there is—things are imposed on you. Other than that, we are open. We encourage His Highness Al-Sabah, the Emir of Kuwait, in his mediation, and the help of our colleagues in the United States, to call everyone to come to the table and have this dialogue.  Glasser: Do you think there’s any indication that President Trump would do that?  Al Attiyah: I think he’s working, he’s working. President Trump is working to bring everybody together. This is, I know, for a fact.  Glasser: And, through this Kuwaiti process, or something directly by the United States?  Al Attiyah: No. Sure, Kuwait will be involved, but in the end of the day you need someone to be witnessing any outcome of the dialogue. So, who better than the United States to be witnessing this outcome?  Glasser: Do you worry that one of the impacts of this could be to fracture the Gulf Cooperation Council, which has been a main security partner of the United States?  Al Attiyah: Well, whoever decided to do what he did is either shortsighted, or the outcome was very clear that he will shatter the GCC.  Glasser: So, you think unless things go in a different direction, that’s where you’re headed?  Al Attiyah: Well, we try to keep the GCC intact, but if they keep pushing this way, I’m sure that God knows what the destiny of the GCC will be.  Glasser: What is your view of the motivation? Why has the Saudi crown prince decided to do this, in your view?  Al Attiyah: Well, it is not only the Saudi crown prince; it is all of them. Three countries have come at night and decided to deceive Qatar, and they planned, and they come in the morning, and they ambushed us. So there are three; I cannot say it’s Saudi Arabia. There are three of them.  Glasser: One thing that’s gotten, I think, a lot of people here in Washington concerned, from a distance, at looking at this is that it, A, increases the risk of conflict, or at least instability, in an already unstable part of the world. But then, in particular, what are some of the consequences for Qatar in terms of geopolitics? Are you turning away from the U.S. and its partners, working with Iran more closely, with Russia more closely? It was just reported the other day by TASS, the Russian news agency, that Qatar’s interested in purchasing the Russian S-400 missile defense system. First of all, is that something that you’re going to go ahead with? And secondly, do you see this as changing Qatar’s friends in the world?  Al Attiyah: In fact, before the 5th of June, this spot of the world was the most stable place in the world, and not vice versa. The Gulf—  Glasser: You mean the Gulf?  Al Attiyah: The GCC. The GCC countries were the most stable and prosperous spot on the MENA region—before the fifth of June. Secondly, our relation with the United States is a historical relation, so may be deep-rootedly solid. We have a lot of our military and military equipment and system is from the United States. So, changing an ally and friend, this is not the way how Qatar works. Qatar always sticks to its friend and ally, and there are so many examples of that I can give you.  In 2002, when the United States troops asked to leave one of our neighboring countries—okay, that was a very bad timing at that time. We expedited hosting them, and we never hesitated for a moment to open our hearts and doors for the American troops to come and stay in Qatar.  So, it is not that easy, that with all this history and relation with the United States, that we will just shift mind. Now, I’ll go back to your question on the Iran situation. When they decided to attack Qatar and close the air and oxygen and the only border we have, it was in Ramadan, and I’m sure you know what Ramadan means for the Muslim world. And people were fasting and not prepared. They decided to cut all the food supply in one night. So, the only way for us was, the only gateway, was through Iran. So, Iran have opened their airways and opened their ports for us so we can get our food and medicine in a very short time.  And this is because you cannot change geography. We are neighbors. And the way they have treated Qatar, they give Qatar all the excuses in the world to—  Glasser: To push you into Iran’s arms?  Al Attiyah: They wanted to do so. They wanted to do so. But at the end of the day, we have good relations with everyone on the limits, which makes the normal neighbor conduct.  Glasser: This S-400 purchase—what is the reason for that?  Al Attiyah: No, again, as I told you, most of our armaments and most of our systems are American. Qatar is a sovereign country, and it’s okay if we see what other countries have, what systems, and look into their systems. That does not mean we are shifting or turning our direction from the United States as our strategical partner, and which will remain our strategical partner and ally.  We have a lot with the United States. We have our C-17 fleet. We have the C-130. We have the Apache from the United States. We have the early warning radar. We have so many systems from the United States. So, it’s not easy to change.  Glasser: Don’t you think the Russians see an opportunity here, though, to separate you from an ally that you have worked closely with?  Al Attiyah: I don’t think Russia would need to seek an opportunity. We have normal relations with so many countries, and one of the good relations is with Russia; we are a member of the international community, and we keep our good bilateral relations with everyone, and this is what’s made Qatar unique. Qatar always seeks to have friends rather than to have enemies.  Glasser: What a lot of people looking at the map here, and seeing how intent this U.S. administration is, President Trump is, in increasing the confrontation with Iran. The dilemma for a country like Qatar is that you’re forced to choose sides, even if you don’t want to, or even if geography makes that difficult. Do you see a situation where you’re working more closely now with Iran, Turkey and Russia than you were a year ago?  Al Attiyah: It’s not about working with Iran; we have—as I told you, we are trying to have a normal relation with all of our neighbors. But, going back to the situation in Iran, we’ve always been encouraging. Even before the crisis we’ve been encouraging that’s the only way to solve our issue in the region; we are neighbors, so it’s the dialogue. The shortest solid way is to have dialogue. And we always encourage our friends and allies everywhere that this is the way we should do it, whether with Iran or with the others.  I think the way of using power is an old, old method. Today, the region is very interconnected, and if—God forbid—a military force is used in our region, it will be a mess.  Glasser: Well, and so, what is the message—just to bring it back to your presence here in Washington—what is the message that you have gotten from Secretary Mattis and others about that? They must be quite alarmed at the prospect of additional conflict in a region.  Al Attiyah: Well, we’ve been talking to Secretary Mattis and Secretary Tillerson, and they both are wise men. And they know the area very well. They know the situation, and they are very cautious, because they wanted to keep this region intact for the good of everyone. It’s not to the benefit of any of the members that this region cracks down. And they are putting a lot of effort to bring everybody together.  Glasser: So, a lot of Americans, they look at the region and they say, you know, basically, we can’t figure it out. A pox on both your houses. Look at Iraq—that didn’t work out so well for us. Then here’s this blockade in the Gulf: Americans feel positively towards Qatar, they know there’s a big air base there. They feel positively towards Saudis, with whom they’ve had long ties.  Do you worry about your support among Americans in general—that people just say forget it, this is exactly why we don’t want to be involved in the Middle East. We don’t want a permanent base there; we don’t want anything to do with it.  Al Attiyah: It is not only the base who link us with the Americans. Qatar, today our relation with America is 360 degrees. We have six of your prestigious universities in Qatar. We have, for example, Carnegie Mellon, Texas A&M, Cornell, Northwestern—all these prestigious universities are in Qatar, as a main campus.  Glasser: Yes. Actually, I wrote the very first front-page story in The Washington Post about that back in early 2003.  Al Attiyah: Economy. We have a very strong economic tie with the United States. Investments. We are one of the largest investors from the region in the United States. So, when you come and look at the relation with the United States, you will see that we have a very—in every direction, we have a good relation. Energy—25 percent of the energy in Qatar is a share of one of the most prestigious energy companies in the United States, ExxonMobil. So—  Glasser: About which our Secretary of State knows a lot.  Al Attiyah: Absolutely. Absolutely. And this is why the relation is rooted and it’s strategic.  Glasser: Minister Al Attiyah of Qatar, you’ve been very generous with your time with us. You are presenting a fairly optimistic portrait of a situation that you’re also saying is unsustainable. What keeps you up at night? What are you most worried could come out of this crisis?  Al Attiyah: Well, the most things which worries me is the dismantling of family—you know, the family. If you know the region very well, you would know that this region is very much built on family interaction, and the social side of that crisis is what’s painful, let’s say.  For example, a woman flying with her 6-month-old child in Abu Dhabi Airport—they took the child and they let the woman go. She is Qatari; the child is Emirati. This is unacceptable. In any norms, this is not acceptable. So, these things make us uncomfortable a lot.  Glasser: In one of the most important regions in the world.    So, if you could sit down with President Trump right here at the table, what would you tell him?  Al Attiyah: The sooner the better, the phone call.  Glasser: So, who’s that one phone call to, though? Is it to the crown prince?  Al Attiyah: It shouldn’t be one phone call; maybe two or three phone calls.  Glasser: Oh, you said it could be solved in one phone call.  Al Attiyah: Yes, one phone call, three times.  Glasser: Got it. OK. To all the participants, is that you meant.  Glasser: Absolutely. Well, sir, we are very grateful for you taking the time on your visit to Washington to join us on The Global POLITICO.  Al Attiyah: Susan, thank you very much.
	The Bizarre American Lobbying War Over Turkish-Run Schools	The government of Turkey is seeking to discredit a network of U.S. charter schools linked to exiled cleric Fetullah Gulen.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/02/01/the-bizarre-american-lobbying-war-over-turkish-run-schools-216562	Politico	A law firm hired by the government of Turkey is lobbying state officials across the U.S. about what it alleges is a suspicious network of American charter schools run by a dangerous Turkish opposition leader.  Federal records show Turkey’s lawyers requested meetings in January 2018 with politicians in 26 states and the District of Columbia, including attorneys general, influential legislators and at least one governor — Michigan’s Rick Snyder. The legal team has already sat down with an official in the Arizona attorney general’s office, worked on legislation in Texas and attended school board meetings in California, Louisiana and Massachusetts.  It’s the latest move in a curious propaganda war playing out in America’s state capitals between Turkey’s ruling party and a secretive religious movement that the Center for Public Integrity previously revealed has funded scores of international trips for state lawmakers from places such as Texas and Tennessee. Nonprofits associated with what is commonly called the Gulen movement — named for the elderly Turkish cleric Fetullah Gulen — sponsored subsidized trips to Turkey for at least 151 state lawmakers, the Center for Public Integrity reported last year. Some of the state lawmakers who took the trips later introduced resolutions supporting the movement — or even backed some of the nearly 200 American charter schools linked to it.  “It’s such nonsense what’s going on in these schools,” said Robert Amsterdam, whose firm is leading the government of Turkey’s campaign to inform state leaders of what it calls “suspect” hiring of Turkish teachers and contractors, among other matters. “We think it’s very important for us to get the word out.”  Turkey retained Amsterdam and Partners LLP, an international law firm with offices in London and Washington, D.C., that specializes in cross-border disputes and white-collar crimes, in 2015 as the Gulen movement was falling out of favor with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s party. Following a failed coup attempt in July 2016, Turkish leaders sharpened their rhetoric, calling Gulen a terrorist and demanding the U.S. extradite him from the compound in Pennsylvania’s Poconos where he lives in exile.  Turkey then made headlines last fall when former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn was reported to be under investigation for helping to plan to kidnap Gulen and return him to Turkey. The White House has stayed mum about the request, and the Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment about the status of the extradition request.  Within Turkey, the ruling party has jailed more than 40,000 alleged supporters of Gulen and shut down related institutions ranging from news outlets to a bank. Stateside, Turkey has paid at least $1.8 million funding Amsterdam and his team in the effort to undermine the Gulen movement and the schools.  A spokesman for Gulen, Alp Aslandogan, denies that either Gulen or his followers had any involvement in the coup attempt. He said they are not worried about Amsterdam’s efforts with state officials because he is pushing “a toxic brand” — Erdogan. “The moment they realize it they will see the political and monetary motivation behind this,” he said. “Robert Amsterdam is not interested in the education of American kids.”  While spokespeople for the schools have said they aren’t affiliated with Gulen, Aslandogan acknowledged they were “started by individuals who are sympathetic to the Gulen movement.” He said the schools should be judged by their performance, and “by and large, they are doing a very good job.”  Some of the schools, such as those in the Harmony chain in Texas, indeed have won awards and recognition, while others have just mediocre test scores. Still, the schools have been dogged by accusations of financial irregularities and extensive hiring of Turkish citizens.  The new revelations of Turkish lobbying come at a delicate moment for U.S.-Turkey relations. In recent weeks, the two countries have found themselves on opposite sides in Syria, after the Turkish government attacked a Kurdish militia that is supported by American forces. Tensions grew after Turkish officials disputed the White House’s account of a phone call between President Donald Trump and Erdogan.  One of the Turkish government’s lobbying targets is Illinois’ powerful Democratic House Speaker Mike Madigan. John Martin, a lawyer representing Turkey, wrote him an email last week requesting a meeting.  Madigan may seem a surprising choice. He was among those who went on trips to Turkey guided by a Gulen nonprofit — in his case, four trips total. He paid for his hotels and flights and contributed to the cost of the trips, said his spokesman Steve Brown, but state records show he also disclosed at least one of the trips as a gift worth more than $500. Madigan has also appeared in a promotional video for one of the schools linked to the movement, Brown said.  Martin, the lawyer representing Turkey, acknowledges the “awkwardness” of reaching out to state officials such as Madigan who have already had positive experiences with the Gulen movement. “One of our intended messages is, ‘Hey, look, you may have taken a trip with these folks or you may have even received a political contribution,’” he said. “‘We’re here to inform you and let you know who these people are so that the next time your eyes are wide open.’”  But others find such efforts unusually aggressive.  “The zeal with which the Erdogan administration wants to root out and suppress the Gulen movement is surprising to me,” said William Martin, a friend of the Gulen movement and a professor at the Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. “That is characteristic of an authoritarian regime and not a democratic regime.”  The lobbying team has also tried influencing legislation and law enforcement in Texas, which has around 40 Gulen-linked schools and at least 10 state lawmakers who have gone on trips to Turkey with the movement. “In Texas, there are a network of charter schools where there have been serious allegations of, or highly suspected activities of financial mismanagement, suspected fraud, apparent self-dealing,” John Martin wrote in an email in January 2018 requesting a meeting with the state’s Attorney General Ken Paxton.  Harmony Charter Schools in Texas, one of the school chains targeted by Amsterdam, points out that another state agency already dismissed an investigation instigated by the firm. “Since then the school has only grown in popularity, with an annual waiting list of about 30,000,” said Timothy Lankford, a spokesman for the school. “It clearly indicates the quality and efficiency of our organization. Harmony is a transparent organization.”  Turkey’s legal team also hired Texas lobbyist Jim Arnold at a rate of $20,000 per month, according to filings required under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. Last year, Arnold, a Republican strategist who ran Rick Perry’s campaign for lieutenant governor in 1998, attempted to drum up legislative support for bills to require more transparency from charter schools, but the measures failed to pass.  “I have had numerous complaints from many of my constituents about the Harmony schools,” said state Rep. Dan Flynn, a Republican who sponsored one of the bills. “I don’t think they have the same accountability as our other public schools.”  The Texas lawmaker received $250 in political contributions from Arnold’s firm since the lobbyist began working for Turkey. Flynn said Arnold, who did not respond to requests for comment, is a longtime supporter.  The Texas Charter School Association, an advocacy group that says it represents more than 90 percent of Texas’ public charter school students, defended the schools’ performance.  “Harmony provides high quality teaching and learning at Harmony, perhaps best exemplified by their May 2017 nomination as a Broad Prize finalist for the best public charter school system in the nation,” charter school association spokesman Seth Winick said in an email.  Still, Dan Flynn said he will try again to pass the transparency legislation when the Texas Legislature reconvenes next year.
	Trump's Unifying Nationalism	His State of the Union hinted at a new politics that could bring Americans closer together—if he can keep himself on message.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/trumps-unifying-nationalism-216920	Politico	Donald Trump gave a notably unifying State of the Union address that didn't back down an inch from his controversial nationalism.  This might sound like a contradiction. It’s not. It’s a step toward fulfilling the political promise of his style of nationalism that could appeal much more broadly than to Trump’s intensely devoted base.  Nationalism shouldn't be synonymous with Trump’s crudity of expression. It doesn’t mean yelling at rallies, or tweeting inflammatory messages, or insulting political adversaries—all of which could more legitimately be pinned on Trump’s populism, or more fundamentally, his personality.  Rather, it is an American tradition that runs through Alexander Hamilton, Teddy Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan.  A true American nationalism should be grounded in our common citizenship, champion popular sovereignty, and exult in our history, culture and ideals. It should the enemy of identity politics (“white nationalism” and “black nationalism” are contradictions in terms). It should be expressed in first-person plural, rather than in the first-person singular.  To say that Trump has often fallen short of these standards is an understatement. With Trump, the theory has always been racing, haphazardly, to catch up to his instincts, and risks getting overwhelming by his outrageousness.  What's the difference between nationalism and patriotism? Often the words are simply used to denote what people like or don't like. Everything good is attributed to patriotism; everything undesirable to nationalism.  The scholar Gregory Jusdanis offers a more precise definition, in which nationalism is the substantive political expression of the positive emotion we call patriotism. “Patriotism refers to the feelings of affection and attachment of a people toward the nation,” he writes. “Nationalism, however, is a discourse that tries to foster a collective sense of belonging among a population with the aim of declaring and maintaining political sovereignty.”  There are countless ways to slice it. The great neoconservative intellectual Irving Kristol wrote in the 1980s, “Patriotism springs from love of the nation’s past; nationalism arises out of hope for the nation’s future, distinctive greatness. Nationalism in our time is probably the most powerful of political emotions.”  There is no doubt about the power of national feeling. There are only a few things that human beings will give their lives to protect—their family, their faith and their country among them.  If you don't think you are subject to the pull of nationalism, you are probably mistaken. The social psychologist Michael Billig wrote an influential book arguing that it is part of the air we breathe as citizens of modern nation-states. He coined the term “banal nationalism” to denote all the routine ways in which we are reminded of our nationhood—flags, anthems and so forth.  “Nationalism, far from being an intermittent mood in established nations, is the endemic condition," Billig writes. “The metonymic image of banal nationalism is not a flag which is being consciously waved with fervent passion; it is the flag hanging unnoticed on the public building.”  To extend the metaphor, during his political rise, Trump noticed the flag when other political players neglected it.  Nationalism had always been part of the conservatism’s appeal, although contemporary Republicans lost touch with it under the influence of tendencies that became more important in recent decades: libertarianism, humanitarian universalism and the cosmopolitanism of a globe-trotting business elite.  For the left, nationalism has become simply a swear word—a crimped, small-minded perspective inevitably tinged with racism. It associates nationalism with the rise of fascism in Europe in the 20th century, and considers any expression of it as borderline dangerous.  If nationalism were tantamount to fascism, though, England and America—the countries that forged modern nationalism, as we know it—would have succumbed to jack-booted thugs a few centuries ago.  Instead, the idea that the nation belonged to the people rather than the crown led to the curtailment of the monarchy in England and its end in America.  The first sentence of the Declaration of Independence is the announcement of the arrival of a nation-state, assuming a “separate and equal station” in the world. From the very beginning, America had a prickly pride, a belief in its own greatness and mission, a hatred of foreign interference and an abiding belief that it should be self-governing.  Even a universalist like Thomas Paine wrote of the union of the states: “On this our great national character depends. It is this which must give us importance abroad and security at home. It is through this only that we are, or can be, nationally known in the world; it is the flag of the United States which renders our ships and commerce safe on the seas, or in a foreign port.”  American nationalism has had different and competing permutations down through the centuries, but there is no need to invent a nationalist tradition in this country; it need only be rediscovered and renovated.  This is the larger political and intellectual challenge for Trumpism. In the meantime, in the sheer political terms, his State of the Union usefully trafficked in a banal nationalism.  Trump hailed 12-year-old Preston Sharp for leading an effort to place flags on the graves of American veterans. Trump said that the boy’s “reverence for those who have served our Nation reminds us why we salute our flag, why we put our hands on our hearts for the pledge of allegiance, and why we proudly stand for the national anthem.”  How can anyone disagree, unless he has managed to get cornered into maintaining the opposite out of outrage at Trump’s intervention in the NFL kneeling protests?  Trump said, “as president of the United States, my highest loyalty, my greatest compassion, and my constant concern is for America's children, America's struggling workers, and America's forgotten communities.”  Is there anyone else’s children who should be his constant concern?  “My duty,” Trump avowed, in a similar sentiment, “is to defend Americans — to protect their safety, their families, their communities, and their right to the American dream.”  Would anyone really prefer a president who, instead, considers himself a citizen of the world detached from American interests?  You could hear the teeth-grinding among Democrats when Trump declared, in a reference to the Dream Act, “Americans are dreamers, too.” The line had all the subversive, common-sense potential of saying, “All lives matter,” when the Left insisted it was only permissible to say, “Black lives matter.”  Immigration is such a flash point in the Trump era because it is the hot-button domestic policy issue that most directly involves the clash of world views between cosmopolitanism and nationalism. The cosmopolitans believe that the test of our immigration policy ought to be whether it is good for the immigrants coming here; the nationalists believe that the test ought to be whether it is good for the national interest and people already here.  Trump doesn't make this point subtly. Liberal commentators were outraged by his extended treatment of the crimes of the MS-13, which they considered a dog whistle against all immigrants. But most people aren't going to mind a statement of presidential determination to crush a gang whose signature is its hideous brutality. The families of MS-13 victims who Trump recognized, in a gripping part of the night, were from an immigrant, working-class community in Long Island.  Trump took the old trope of Ronald Reagan’s of recognizing exemplary people in the balcony and extended it to its maximum possible extent. The speech was almost a long disquisition on ordinary heroes, each illustrating a theme of the speech. This doesn't make for rhetoric for the ages, but it's a long way from “I alone can fix it.”  Trump went out of his way to frame his successes in terms of the American people—all of them. He spoke of wanting “to protect our citizens of every background, color, religion, and creed.” For that to be believable, Trump obviously has to avoid courting the inflammatory controversies that he apparently can't live without out.  He ended his speech hailing ordinary people, saying that “above all else, they are Americans. And this Capitol, this city, and this Nation, belong to them.”  If he resolved to routinely live up to that sentiment, he would do himself, and the country’s political culture, immeasurable good. In political terms, it isn't Trump the alleged tool of the Russians or Trump the budding dictator whom Democrats have to fear most; it’s Trump the nationalist unifier.
	Joe Kennedy: Read My Message, Not My Lips	“They can point out too much Chapstick all they want,” he says in a new interview.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/joe-kennedy-state-of-the-union-rebuttal-216561	Politico	NEWTON, Mass.—Joseph Kennedy III is well aware of all the jokes about what looked to many like a bit of drool hanging off his lips during his response to the president’s State of the Union speech.  “Disappointing” is how the up-and-coming Massachusetts Democrat described the mocking reaction in an interview publishing in full next week for POLITICO’s Off Message podcast. On the brighter side, he said, “We kind of got to push through it. I’d like to think that part of the message I tried to deliver last night was an important one. Easy to understand why the people I was criticizing would look for any way to deflect it.”  Click here to subscribe to Off Message to get the full Kennedy interview coming Tuesday.  In Tuesday’s rebuttal of the president’s prime-time address—traditionally a thankless job that has damaged many a promising political career—Kennedy gave a generally well-received 10 minutes urging Americans to “have faith: the state of our union is hopeful, resilient and enduring.”  Next stop for that message will be Thursday outside Pittsburgh, where the 37-year-old Kennedy will fly in for a trip that was already on the books to appear at several events for Conor Lamb, the Democrat running in the suddenly competitive House special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District.  But first, he followed up his speech touching on Barack Obama-esque themes of diversity, equality and overcoming false choices with an email sent to the network of Obama supporters on the Organizing for Action list, writing, “That is our choice. That is who we are. And it's time to fight for it.”  Kennedy, who delivered his speech in the auto shop of a technical school at the south end of his district in Fall River, was praised by a range of people for his speech but mocked by some—including a number of prominent Republicans—for the shininess in one corner of his mouth throughout the 10-minute speech.  It was a classic example of an issue that appeared only on television: the reflection of the lights wasn’t visible to anyone in the room, and he and staff became aware of it only after the broadcast was done.  It was also a classic example of how the peanut gallery nature of Twitter can shape perceptions across the wider media. Kennedy painted a dark portrait of America on the brink, Nazi marches and mass shootings, “and that nagging, sinking feeling, no matter your political beliefs, ‘This is not right. This is not who we are.’”  Kennedy wasn’t defensive. He sees the hubbub over his shiny lips as another symptom of his larger argument: that when “far bigger” issues are actually at stake, it can seem like everything is the chaos, partisanship and politics of the past year.  “All of us bear some responsibility for that too,” he said. “It is a fractured and divided country. There are undeniably a sizable percentage of our population that steadfastly supports the president. People who don’t support the president have to acknowledge that.”  It’s even more a measure, he said, of how nervous the attacks show some of the president’s supporters to be.  “They can point out too much Chapstick all they want—it doesn’t mean that the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice isn’t rolling back civil rights protections. It doesn’t mean that an economic plan put forth by this administration is largely zero sum—that it is benefiting somebody at the expense of somebody else,” he said. “It does not get away from the fact that the tone and the rhetoric our president has used has continued to divide America. And it’s not going to stop the fact that I think that’s wrong.”  He’s started tossing back mentions of the episode with self-effacing promises to use less Chapstick, and added, “I like to think that if I can learn that lesson that quickly, some of the folks that are criticizing me can as well.”  Republicans and others also criticized Kennedy’s selection as showing the dearth of Democratic stars and ideas, dismissing him as either a white man, a Massachusetts liberal, a dynastic politician—he is the grandson of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy—or some combination of the above.  “On the one hand, all those things are more or less true,” Kennedy said of the japes at his privileged background. “Part of what I tried to point out last night was that there’s far more issues, opportunities, obstacles, challenges that unite those various identity groups than divide them, and I think this administration is using some cheap form of exploiting those divisions to exercise their own political agenda. That might work in the short term. I’ve never seen that work in the long run in our country.”  Mouth glare aside, Kennedy’s speech earned high marks from across the political spectrum, from former Obama speechwriter Ben Rhodes, who tweeted while watching, “Kennedy is accomplishing something very hard—fighting back while offering a unifying message,” to Republican pollster Frank Luntz, who followed up a tweet about the “drool-mouth” by writing, “Joe Kennedy did a better job drawing a sharp contrast with the GOP than any Democratic SOTU response since Tim Kaine 15 years ago.”  Kennedy said he knew what he was getting into when he agreed to do the response, and that he’d face attacks, adding, “Nobody doing that speech is going to be able to match the circumstance and the ceremony.”  The Democratic leadership put choosing the location and drafting of the speech—as well as all the logistics for the event—in his hands. On just one week’s notice, his staff reviewed previous response speeches and decided he needed to be in front of a crowd.  “There might be some compelling speakers out there that can hold a televised crowd for seven, eight, 10 minutes, direct to camera, but I’m not one of them,” he said. “You can do it for 30 seconds, 45 seconds—unless you’re Robert De Niro or Al Pacino, it gets pretty tough. And I’m not either of them.”
	Trump’s Saturday Night Massacre Is Happening Right Before Our Eyes	The aim of the campaign against the Mueller investigation and the FBI is clear: Obstructing justice.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/trumps-saturday-night-massacre-is-happening-right-before-our-eyes-216560	Politico	The FBI issued an extraordinary statement on Wednesday, pushing back on the release of a partisan congressional memo alleging the bureau used improper evidence to obtain legal permission to surveil a Trump campaign adviser. We’ve never seen anything like it. “[T]he FBI was provided a limited opportunity to review this memo the day before the committee voted to release it,” the bureau said. “As expressed during our initial review, we have grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.”  The memo, written by Congressman Devin Nunes and barreling toward public circulation at the president’s discretion, has already created a firestorm, and it is not even out yet. Nunes fired back at the FBI hours later, claiming, “It’s clear that top officials used unverified information in a court document to fuel a counterintelligence investigation during an American political campaign.”  Let’s be clear about what’s happening here: This memo is the latest escalation in an eight-month effort to tarnish the Russia investigation that might be the most significant smear campaign against the executive branch since Joe McCarthy—only here, the effort is being led by the head of that branch himself. As the New York Times reported, the Nunes memo seems like a dagger aimed by President Trump at Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is supervising the Russia probe for the Justice Department.  Republican huzzahs over Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s appointment were still echoing when the opening salvo of this shocking campaign was launched: the claim that Mueller had disqualifying “conflicts.” Never mind that the Justice Department cleared Mueller of conflicts before he was appointed. Or that ethical standards do not remotely support disqualification over issues like Mueller’s professional acquaintance with James Comey, his employment at a firm that represented Trump associates, or even a long-ago dispute over the amount of fees Mueller owed at a Trump golf course. These meritless conflicts claims have continued to resurface like a game of whack-a-mole, popping up elsewhere after they are knocked down.  The next smear targeted the members of Mueller’s team. President Trump and his supporters loudly complained of political bias because some of Mueller’s lawyers have donated to Democrats. But Mueller is prohibited from asking his hires about their political contributions; applicable laws and regulations bar him from considering such matters in making employment decisions. Moreover, Mueller himself was a registered Republican the last time anyone checked and was appointed by another: Rosenstein.  When that assault didn’t stick, then came the allegation that the investigation had improperly obtained emails from Trump transition email accounts. The initial flurry of attention—including mention by the president himself—soon faded when the General Services Administration said the transition had been told its emails would not be protected, and experts nearly unanimously dismissed any impropriety. Indeed, the claims turned out to be so weak that President Trump’s transition legal team didn’t even press them in court, instead settling for a complaining letter to Congress. When faced with resounding pushback, the reply was to slink away—but not before filling the airwaves with days of unfounded insinuations.  That was when the president and his supporters upped the ante. For a time, there was a focus on sensational claims about the conduct of two DOJ employees as evidence of anti-Trump bias. One was Peter Strzok, an FBI specialist in Russia matters who sent negative texts about Trump to a colleague. The other is Bruce Ohr, a career attorney at DOJ who was never assigned to Mueller’s team and whose wife worked for Fusion GPS—the firm behind the dossier compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele (more on that in a second). Here too, the facts proved inconvenient: It turned out Mueller axed Strzok from the investigation when the texts came to light, and Ohr was reassigned after DOJ learned that he had failed to disclose contacts with individuals at the firm. (Then there is today’s news that Strzok co-authored the pre-election FBI letter that many believe sunk the Clinton campaign—hardly proof of pro-Clinton bias.) The fact that Strzok and Ohr were reassigned and are now the subjects of internal DOJ investigations is a sign that the system is working, not that it is broken.  Nevertheless, the escalation continued even after the reassignments. The Trump spotlight turned to the Steele dossier, commissioned by an opposition research firm funded first by Republican opponents of Trump and then by representatives of the Clinton campaign. We haven’t read the Nunes memo, but Republicans have been whispering for weeks that the dossier served as the basis for the FBI’s Russia investigation and therefore tarnishes it.  Once again, the facts get in the way. Fusion GPS founder Glenn Simpson, who hired Steele, testified to Congress that the FBI believed the dossier to be credible “because they had other intelligence that indicated the same thing and one of those pieces of intelligence was a human source from inside the Trump Organization.” News reports indicate that the FBI had many other leads when it launched the investigation. These included a tip from Australian intelligence and the hacking and publishing of emails from the Democratic National Committee.  That brings us at last to Representative Nunes. His contribution to all of this is a memo that claims the FBI improperly obtained authorization to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign advisor Carter Page. Democrats on the committee unanimously opposed its release, asserting its claims of wrongdoing are unfounded and out of context and its release endangers our national security. Indeed, Trump’s own Justice Department objected to its release as “extraordinarily reckless,” and his handpicked FBI director reportedly trudged to the White House to voice his firm objections—before his bureau’s formal objections were made public on Wednesday. Just like the other smears that preceded it, this latest one completely lacks credibility.  All this has built steadily toward a crisis for American democracy—a Saturday Night Massacre in slow motion. Press reports suggest the president may be contemplating using the memo to dismiss Rosenstein. That matters: If the president were to use his powers to insert someone lacking independence, that person could throttle the special counsel.  That move would, however, risk deepening the president’s obstruction of justice liability, and that of those around him who are involved in the decision. After all, firing Comey on dubious grounds with the alleged intent to hamper the Russia investigation led to an obstruction investigation. Cashiering Rosenstein would offer a matching bookend. That is particularly so in light of another startling report today: that the president sought details about the Russia investigation from Rosenstein, then asked him, “Are you on my team?” This echoes Trump’s demand for loyalty from Comey that helped kick off the obstruction investigation.  Rosenstein’s failure to provide sufficient answers has put his head on the chopping block, with the president reportedly preparing to use the memo as a pretext. This targeting of the deputy attorney general also makes clear the larger motivations of the smear campaign. It is plainly obstructive of the Russia investigation. From Trump on down, the hope seems to be that the best defense will prove to be a good offense. This is exactly the playbook Trump used to run when he was a slick up-and-coming Manhattan developer taking advice from the late Roy Cohn: attack, attack attack. But this is the presidency, and Trump has failed to learn the lesson of Cohn’s previous client and patron, Joe McCarthy. It’s not going to go the way he thinks.
	Democrats Disagree on How to Respond to Trump. Is That a Problem?	The left had at least four different rebuttals to the president’s State of the Union address. It looks like chaos—but it just might work.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/democrats-disagree-on-trump-response-problem-216557	Politico	Democrats had so much to say about Donald Trump’s State of the Union address last night, they couldn’t say it with one voice. It took four responses—five, if you count Maxine Waters’ cameo on BET scheduled for tonight—to capture the breadth of progressive thought on how to distill the party’s platform and message in advance of the 2018 midterm elections.  Not every response came with the Democratic Party’s stamp of approval. Rep. Joe Kennedy III gave the party’s official English-language response, with the Spanish-language honors going to Virginia state legislator Elizabeth Guzman. The unofficial responses came from the Working Families Party, who enlisted former Maryland Democratic congresswoman and current candidate for Prince George’s County executive Donna Edwards, and from the technically independent Sen. Bernie Sanders.  The net effect wasn’t cacophony. Sanders and Edwards didn’t try to steal Kennedy’s spotlight, and waited until he finished (though they directly competed with each other). The four didn’t contradict each other on policy matters.  But in their varying responses, it’s easy to see a lack of strategic consensus on the left in how to deal with the phenomenon that is Donald Trump. The party establishment and the progressive diaspora part ways on how hard to hit a president they all despise, and on what issues to emphasize.  Kennedy did not mention Trump’s name. He cataloged the trials of “the past year.” He referred to the “administration” and charged “they” with “targeting the very idea that we are all worthy of protection.” Speaking to a group of vocational school students in working-class Fall River, Massachusetts, and reaching a wide audience on broadcast networks, Kennedy did not want to alienate any swing voters who might have voted for Trump.  Guzman, whose party-sanctioned address aired on Spanish language TV channels, was more pointed and personal: “The president has attacked our families … threatened to deport young patriotic and brave Dreamers [and] failed in his duty to protect our families in Puerto Rico who were affected by Hurricane Maria.” This suggests the Democratic Party is fine with a two-pronged message, one that hits Trump hard in certain communities, but offers oblique criticism in others. For all their shared hostility to Trump, the left is still a coalition more than it is an ideologically coherent movement like the small-government conservatism of the pre-Trump era.  Sanders, speaking to his progressive loyalists on his own social media platforms, was laser-focused on Trump. He began by citing “lies that [Trump] told during his campaign and the promises he made to working people which he did not keep.” Perhaps having 2020 a little more on his mind than 2018—Sanders recently summoned his top lieutenants for a meeting about a possible second presidential run—he declared, “The American people do not want a president who is compulsively dishonest, who is a bully, who actively represents the interests of the billionaire class, who is anti-science, and who is trying to divide us up.”  Sanders, for all his desire to push American politics to the left, is not a tactical radical. He stopped short of pushing impeachment and did not emphasize the special counsel investigation. Edwards did not mention impeachment, either, but did accuse Trump of “upending the rule of law, destroying institutions, and engaging in an unprecedented purge of the Department of Justice as special counsel [Robert] Mueller closes in on him.” That shows some disagreement within the progressive community over whether it’s smarter politics to focus on Trump’s scandals or on Trump’s policies. In essence: Russiagate or health care?  Kennedy went comparatively light on criticism of the new tax reform law. He briefly chided “cut[ting] taxes for corporations today if we raise them on families tomorrow,” a reference to how the law allows the individual tax cuts to expire in 2025, while corporate cuts are permanent. But Edwards ripped the “Republican tax scam” as “a heist that benefits some of the richest people who have ever lived [for which] the rest of us will have to pay ... ” Sanders challenged Trump’s claims of immediate benefits for workers, citing new poll data that “only 2 percent of Americans report receiving a raise or a bonus because of this tax bill” and noting that some companies touting year-end bonuses are also laying off workers.  The difference in approach reflects a hesitancy among some Democrats to attack a tax reform which, if that 2 percent figure rises, may be embraced by voters come November. Most people do get a tax cut this year, even if, as Sanders stressed, “83 percent of the benefits to the top 1 percent.” Democrats with long memories remember the futile attempts to disparage the $300 checks issued by President George W. Bush as paltry in comparison to the windfalls reaped by the wealthy. (Call this the Woody Allen critique: The food is bad … and such small portions!) The complaint didn’t resonate because many voters in 2004 were happy to get anything. The same could be true this year, and that might make some Democrats choose to fight Trump and the GOP on different terrain.  As you might expect, Sanders went much further on policy prescriptions than the official Democratic responses, hammering his signature proposals including “Medicare for All,” “$15 an hour federal minimum wage,” “free tuition at public colleges and universities” and “universal child care.” He took aim at Trump’s forthcoming infrastructure plan, arguing it would “sell [our] vital infrastructure to Wall Street.” Sanders proposed spending $1.5 trillion in federal funds on infrastructure over 10 years.  Kennedy steered clear of policy specifics, generically offering “a living wage … affordable child care … roads and bridges that won’t rust away, a good education that you can afford [and] a health care system that offers you mercy.” (Kennedy and Guzman both slipped in the Democratic Party’s poll-tested and pundit-maligned platform slogan, “a Better Deal.” Sanders did not.)  What was similar in the four addresses is as important as the differences. Everyone was heavily supportive of the “Dreamers” and immigration in general. Everyone ducked gun control (though Kennedy made a glancing mention of “bullets tearing through our classrooms, concerts and congregations.”) Everyone kept the focus on domestic policy and shelved talk of foreign policy. Most important, everyone sought to bridge America’s divides by melding rhetoric about racial and gender equality with economic fairness.  The attempt to walk the cultural tightrope was laid out most starkly by Kennedy, who summed up the current administration’s policies as a “zero sum game, where for one to win, another must lose. … We are bombarded with one false choice after another. Coal miners or single moms? Rural communities or inner cities? The coast or the heartland?” The Democrats, assured Kennedy, will “choose both.” But Kennedy still tilted toward the Democratic base by explicitly embracing “#MeToo,” “Black Lives Matter” and all those who have been marching against Trump. Did he find the sweet spot that can energize the progressive base without sparking right-wing backlash? No one can know for sure until November.  Democrats’ inability to speak in a singular voice is not in itself debilitating. For most of Barack Obama’s State of the Union addresses, the official Republican response was joined by separate responses from the Tea Party and Senator Rand Paul (in 2013, Paul gave the Tea Party response). These multiple messages did not stop Republicans from winning elections in 2014 and 2016.  But they did reveal intraparty tensions. The ideological and tactical disagreements sometimes appeared minor to those outside the conservative movement, yet they metastasized in 2016 and led to Trump’s effective takeover of the party.  Does that history suggest a hostile takeover by the Democrats’ left wing in 2020? Edwards sought to tamp down talk of cacophony in advance of her speech, posting on Twitter, “Many audiences, multiple platforms, reaching people no matter where they are. Same message, different voices ... ”  She’s right that a decentralized media environment requires multiple platforms to maximize reach. But it also means parties can’t easily control who gets on those platforms and what message they will deliver. The Democratic messages were similar, but despite Edwards’ prediction, not quite the same. They may not need one rigidly executed message to triumph in 2018, but as Republicans have learned, sometimes the civil wars come after an election victory—not before it.
	Steve Mnuchin Has Some Explaining to Do	Why did the Treasury secretary sign off on a list of Russian to sanction that was ripped off from Forbes magazine?		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/steve-mnuchin-russia-sanctions-list-forbes-216556	Politico	A peculiarity of the Trump campaign was its extensive links with all kinds of dubious Russian contacts. Several of them were known intelligence agents, such as the bank CEO Sergei Gorkov and Paul Manafort’s righthand man, Konstantin Kilimnik. For unknown reasons, many Trump campaign operators lied about their contacts with official Russians and intelligence officers. In the end, this became so overwhelming that the Department of Justice found itself forced to appoint a special counsel, Robert Mueller.  Meanwhile, President Donald Trump repeatedly refused to acknowledge that Russia had hacked U.S. computers in connection with the elections, and even praised Russian President Vladimir Putin whenever he got an opportunity. In no way has President Trump suggested that he wanted to defend the U.S. election system against future Russian hacking.  In Congress, bipartisan worries arose that President Trump would abolish the U.S. sanctions against Russia that the United States had imposed because of Russia’s military aggression in Ukraine. Since all the U.S. sanctions against Russia had been introduced through presidential executive orders, the president could formally revoke them at any time on his own will.  Therefore, both houses of Congress voted to adopt the new Combating America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). In the House of Representatives, only three congressmen opposed it, and in the Senate the overwhelming vote count was 98 against 2. President Donald Trump had little choice but signed it into law, and he did so on August 2—grudgingly. In a signing statement, the White House said the bill contained “a number of clearly unconstitutional provisions” that “purport to displace the president's exclusive constitutional authority to recognize foreign governments, including their territorial bounds.”  Soon, it emerged that section 241of the new law had attracted great attention in Moscow. It called on the secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the director of national intelligence and the secretary of state, to submit within 180 days a detailed report identifying “the most significant senior foreign political figures and oligarchs” in Russia. It was supposed to be “determined by their closeness to the Russian regime and their net worth.” It should also be based on an “assessment of the relationship between individuals and President Vladimir Putin or other members of the Russian ruling elite” and an “identification of any indices of corruption with respect to those individuals.”  The obvious aim of this text was to identify those who had made their fortune on illicit contacts with the Kremlin. This anticipated report became popularly called the “Kremlin list.” The various government bodies involved clearly carried out a conscientious work on these lines. Numerous sources reported that a selective and limited list was being formed, even if uncertainties remained.  In the last week, however, somebody high up – as yet unknown – threw out the whole expert work. It could be somebody in the State Department, the Treasury or the White House. Instead of using the vetted, thoroughly researched list, this unknown political superior simply wrote down the top of the Russian presidential administration and government plus the 96 Russian billionaires on the Forbes list.  This act has numerous implications. First, by this action, this senior official ridiculed the government experts who had prepared another report. Any serious Russian who reads the published list can only conclude that U.S. intelligence is as dumb as it gets.  Second, this was supposed to be a list naming and shaming specific, odious and corrupt figures around the Kremlin. By mentioning more than 200 people, the U.S. government achieved the opposite effect—namely mocking the seemingly semi-literate readers of the Kremlin phone book and the Forbes rich list. The list includes several Kremlin critics.  Third, the clear intention of section 241, and the reason why it had attracted so much attention, was the intention to split the Russian elite and offer prominent Russians the option to live safely in the West. Many businessmen on the Forbes list are citizens of countries other than Russia and have long live abroad. By including all the wealthiest Russians, the U.S. government has instead made a major push to solidify the Russian elite behind Putin.  By signing this list, the secretary of the Treasury has caused a great deal of damage. Who will ever believe any intelligence coming from the Treasury in the future? He has mocked the U.S. sanctions on Russia and rendered CAATSA ineffective. Since the Treasury Department has issued this list, Secretary Steve Mnuchin is ultimately responsible. Why has he done something that can only benefit Putin?
	Trump Took a Victory Lap. Here's What He Didn't Mention	Some things about the economy got conveniently left out last night.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/31/state-of-union-trump-victory-lap-216555	Politico	Almost exactly a year ago, President Donald Trump hosted Harley-Davidson executives at the White House and credited their success to a new American spirit that had emerged since his election: “I think you’re going to even expand. I know your business is now doing very well.” He later singled out Harley-Davidson as a “great American company” in his first address to Congress, vowing to help it again by persuading foreign countries to cut tariffs on its motorcycles.  But Harley-Davidson did not make Trump’s list of corporations benefiting from his presidency during his State of the Union address Tuesday night. That may be because Tuesday morning, Harley-Davidson announced plans to close a Kansas City factory and lay off 800 employees after weak fourth-quarter earnings, capping off a rough 2017 that saw its worldwide sales drop 6.7 percent. The company’s CEO has said publicly that part of the problem was Trump’s decision to quit the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal: “That would have helped us a lot.”  It would be silly to portray Harley-Davidson’s current troubles as a reflection of the economy, which is doing just fine after Trump’s first year in office. But it was even sillier to portray Harley-Davidson’s successes as a reflection of his instant rescue of the economy, which was also doing just fine before Trump took office. He loves to use corporations as props in his own heroic economic narrative, a narrative that depends on national amnesia about the state of the economy he inherited.  “For many years, companies and jobs were only leaving us,” Trump declared last night. “But now they are coming back!”  Um … no. It’s good that the U.S. economy created 2.4 million jobs in the past year, as Trump boasted last night, but it created 16 million jobs in the six years before that. The president provided an inadvertent reminder with his shoutout to Corey Adams, “an all-American worker” whose bosses at Staub Manufacturing in Ohio used their tax cuts to give him a raise. Trump noted that Adams “lost his job during the 2008 recession, and was later hired by Staub,” so he was presumably one of the 16 million who left the unemployment rolls under President Barack Obama.  Similarly, it’s great that the African-American unemployment rate dropped from 7.9 percent to 6.8 percent in 2017, which Trump noted is “the lowest rate ever recorded,” but that was after dropping from 16.1 percent to 7.9 percent since 2009. Trump also hailed how the stock market “has smashed one record after another,” and indeed it has, but it also nearly tripled on Obama’s watch, which doesn’t quite fit Trump’s mythology of America rising from the ashes. Trump even took credit for the resurgence of U.S. auto manufacturing, “something we have not seen for decades.” In fact, Obama inherited an auto industry in shambles, but auto sales and employment nearly doubled on his watch—and have actually declined slightly on Trump’s.  Last night, Trump spent a lot of time advertising that “massive tax cut” he signed last month—and at $1.5 trillion it really is big, although not, as he claimed, the biggest in American history. And it is true, as he said, that 3 million workers have received bonuses that companies like Staub attributed to his corporate tax cuts. But if the point of the legislation had been to get money to workers, the Republicans who wrote it could have just given money to workers. Instead, they poured most of the money into permanent tax relief for corporations and wealthy heirs, while the relief for the middle class was much more modest and temporary.  Those bonuses, of course, will also be temporary, but they gave employers an opportunity to play their beneficent roles in Trump’s economic theater. With great fanfare, AT&T attributed its $1,000 per employee bonuses to the tax cuts, even though it had been discussing them with its unions for months, then unveiled major layoffs with no fanfare. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. paired a $300 million wage increase for its workers with a $4 billion stock buyback for its investors, while also shuttering stores and firing workers. Kimberly-Clark, abandoning the Trump script, actually announced that it would use its tax-cut windfall to shut down factories and lay off 5,000 workers. One consulting firm surveyed 333 large employers about what they planned to do with their tax cuts, and only 7 percent said they were planning any kind of wage increase.  It’s reminiscent of Trump’s early days in office, when he kept touting big expansion plans from companies like Charter Communications, General Motors and Intel that had been in the works long before he arrived in Washington. Or his post-election public-relations coup when he supposedly saved the jobs at a Carrier plant in Indianapolis from relocating to Mexico; that factory announced 300 layoffs in July and 200 more this month. Obviously, Carrier didn’t fit last night’s New American Moment theme—the Democratic group American Bridge ran digital ads featuring angry Carrier workers accusing Trump of betraying them during the speech—so Trump bragged about Apple instead, crediting its new $350 billion investment strategy to his tax cuts, even though the company has not.  It must be said that Trump misleading his audience about the economy was not exactly playing against type. What seemed unusual last night was Trump boring his audience about the economy. Whatever you thought of his muscular economic nationalism on the campaign trail, with his fiery rants about the nefariousness of China and Mexico and the stupidity of U.S. negotiators, he always put on a good and original show. Last night, most of the policy statements he read off the teleprompter were studiously bland and content-free politician-talk: “From now on, we expect trading relationships to be fair and reciprocal.” Or: “I am asking both parties to come together to give us the safe, fast, reliable modern infrastructure our economy needs and our people deserve.” Perhaps he paid his speechwriters by the cliché.  In fairness, it’s hard to craft an original or indelible State of the Union address. Obama’s annual exhortations about “winning the future” or “an economy built to last” were pretty forgettable, too; the most memorable line in an Obama speech to Congress was “You lie!”—and it wasn’t his. The public quickly forgot the promises Trump made about the economy last year, and last night’s promises probably won’t matter much, either.  But Trump has committed pretty ferociously to his heroic narrative of resurrection. If the stock market or the labor market ever departs too dramatically from that narrative, if the rest of the economy follows the path of Harley-Davidson—well, that might matter.
	I’m a Republican. Why Is My Party Gaslighting America?	Really, at this point, it doesn’t really matter what the memo says.		https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/01/30/republican-party-release-the-memo-gaslighting-america-216554	Politico	Riddle me this: If Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee have smoking gun evidence of a deep-state conspiracy that threatens American democracy itself, wouldn’t they be doing more than playing silly hashtag games, such as #ReleasetheMemo?  Hint: The answer is yes. If this were a serious undertaking, congressional investigators would be collaborating with the Department of Justice, FBI and relevant Senate committees to save America from the threat within. But we’re no longer dealing in the realm of facts and reason when it comes to grave matters of security and justice. We are, at Donald Trump’s behest, fully engulfed in a narrative explicitly designed to impugn and destroy the credibility of the law enforcement agency tasked with investigating the Trump campaign’s relationship with Russia during the 2016 election.  The memo in question is one written by the staff of Republican Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes—the same Nunes who recused himself from the Russia investigation last year among allegations that “he made unauthorized disclosures of classified information.” Now, Nunes is at it again. This time with a four-page classified memo that, if you believe what those who have read it say, shows an Obama-era FBI rife with corruption and engaging in eye-popping abuses of power. The details of what the memo says have been kept private, because they are classified. But that hasn’t stopped Trump’s allies on Capitol Hill and beyond from crowing about the allegedly shocking memo since mid-January, demanding it be released to the public and spawning a viral hashtag, now used by everyone from Donald Trump Jr. to Sean Hannity and Julian Assange. After the House voted on Monday to do so, House Speaker Paul Ryan made a statement in favor of the decision. Now, the matter is in the president’s hands.  But really, at this point, it doesn’t really matter what the memo says. Prompted by Trump, his allies on Capitol Hill and in the Trump-affirming media universe, millions of Americans have been led to brainstorm all the various ways faceless bureaucrats embedded in the government could be working to undermine Trump. The entire American political media complex is consumed with speculation about what might be in the memo’s contents. We’ve all been sucked into a story we know probably isn’t true. And, there’s not a thing we can do to stop it. The president has already claimed two scalps with his shameless bullying, rumor mongering and conspiracy peddling: former FBI Director James Comey and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. And it’s happening all over again. With #Releasethememo, the FBI has already been accused of a multitude of various crimes without ever being given the chance to answer or explain.  The #ReleasetheMemo campaign bears all the classic hallmarks of a uniquely Trumpian ruse. Throughout his career as a New York real estate mogul and media star Trump has stumbled upon a foolproof way of trapping people into his web of lies. He always begins by casting vague aspersions about his target, in this case, the law enforcement networks investigating him. Recall how news reports of the now well-known and controversial dossier prompted him to ask, “Are we living in Nazi Germany?” Or how he compared the surveillance of campaign associates, such as Paul Manafort and Carter Page, to “McCarthyism” and “Nixon/Watergate.” Never mind that his actions more closely resemble those of Nixon during Watergate than anything undertaken those investigating him. Trump wanted his followers to believe one thing and one thing only: A massive conspiracy was underfoot to undermine his presidency, and he’s been peddling this particular theory for well over a year now.  Next step: Rather than answer any questions directly about the matter, Trump advances his narrative, often while denying any responsibility for it. His statement to NBC’s Lester Holt about firing Comey is a classic example. “And, in fact when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story, it’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election they should have won,” he said. In other words, he fired Comey because of the Russian investigation, but denied there was any wrongdoing with Russia. This tactic has similarly played out with #ReleasetheMemo. Republicans have widely advanced the narrative that various abuses were committed, but denied naming anything specific, citing security concerns with releasing the material.     Here’s another Trumpian tactic: building suspense. When Trump tweeted that “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” people immediately started to question whether, à la Watergate, there was a secret taping system inside the Oval Office. They hoped there were tapes. Even Comey himself testified to Congress, “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.” Weeks later, Trump admitted there were no tapes. Often Trump will, whether he has it or not, promise information will come out “soon … perhaps in two weeks.” This is the precise stage we find ourselves upon now with #ReleasetheMemo. At this moment, Trump is waiting to make a final decision to release the contents. We all have our countdown clocks on; Trump is in control of this story. Whatever happens next, rest assured, Trump will use the self-manufactured controversy Nunes created to discredit the Russia probe investigators.  You may think this all sounds silly and misleading; that this nonsense could never work. But when people see what’s in the memo, it won’t settle the debate. More likely than not, another round of gaslighting will begin to tip the debate in Trump’s favor. Remember, Trump is the same guy who used the bogus birther theory to launch himself on the political stage. He is the same guy who used the National Enquirer to accuse Ted Cruz’s father of being involved in the assassination of JFK. Don’t laugh. The same week Trump started flacking that flabbergasting story, Cruz dropped out of the presidential election and Trump became the default GOP presidential nominee.  And this time, Trump has an eager crop of Republicans on Capitol Hill eager to assist him and an entire government apparatus at his disposal in the form of bobble-headed Cabinet secretaries, press teams and even a vice president. As a result, everyone is talking about what could possibly be in the mysterious memo. Republicans are running to TV cameras hyping claims about improper surveillance, FISA court abuse and partisan rancor inside the FBI.  We are being gaslit into believing that, supposedly, those investigating Trump’s ties to Russia are so biased and corrupt that nothing they produce should be believed. Every once in a while, the true aims of this narrative are revealed. Rep. Matt Gaetz, the freshly elected Republican congressman from Florida, let the truth slip. He told CNN’s Jake Tapper in between his hits on InfoWars with Alex Jones, that there is “tremendous bias that should stop this probe from going forward.”  “Stop this probe from going forward.” Alas, there is always a purpose to Trump’s gaslighting. Trump’s firemen on Capitol Hill know their mission. Whether they succeed or not depends on our ability to see through the smoke. At this point, the future seems hazy.
	Will the Supreme Court deal a blow to trade unions?	The court will consider whether unions can require non-member workers to help pay for collective bargaining		https://www.economist.com/blogs/democracyinamerica/2018/02/getting-their-dues	The Economist	
	The economic returns to university	Ever more students are earning degrees. Is it paying off?		https://www.economist.com/blogs/graphicdetail/2018/02/higher-education	The Economist	
	Why United Airlines has got into a flap over a peacock	Many carriers think their rules on emotional-support animals are being abused		https://www.economist.com/blogs/gulliver/2018/02/no-birds-allowed	The Economist	
	Transcript: Interview with Metropolitan Hilarion Alfeyev	The Economist meets bishop Hilarion Alfeyev, the man in charge of external relations for the Russian Orthodox church		https://www.economist.com/news/europe/21736203-economist-meets-bishop-hilarion-alfeyev-man-charge-external-relations	The Economist	
	Uzbekistan’s reforming president sacks his hated spymaster	Is the Central Asian dictatorship becoming more democratic, or just less brutal?		https://www.economist.com/news/asia/21736208-central-asian-dictatorship-becoming-more-democratic-or-just-less-brutal-uzbekistans	The Economist	
	“The Good Place” shows that a comedy can also tackle morality	In Michael Schur's hands, morality plus absurdity results in hilarity		https://www.economist.com/blogs/prospero/2018/02/cackling-kant	The Economist	
	“The Good Place” shows that a comedy can also tackle morality	In Michael Schur's hands, morality plus absurdity results in hilarity		https://www.economist.com/blogs/prospero/2018/02/cackling-kant	The Economist	
	“The Good Place” shows that a comedy can also tackle morality	In Michael Schur's hands, morality plus absurdity results in hilarity		https://www.economist.com/blogs/prospero/2018/02/cackling-kant	The Economist	
	Why Cape Town’s water could run out in April	It would become the first sizeable city to turn off the taps		https://www.economist.com/blogs/economist-explains/2018/02/economist-explains	The Economist	
	The rise and fall of Egyptian Arabic	Once the lingua franca of the Arab world, Egypt's dialect is in decline along with the country's cultural and political leadership		https://www.economist.com/blogs/prospero/2018/01/no-longer-voice-arabs	The Economist	
	Democracy continues its disturbing retreat	More than half the countries in the latest update of a democratic-health index saw their scores decline		https://www.economist.com/blogs/graphicdetail/2018/01/daily-chart-21	The Economist	
	In the 1960s, Californian artists became masters of light and space	Their work still invites viewers to question how they see, as demonstrated in a group of new exhibitions		https://www.economist.com/blogs/prospero/2018/01/immaterial-world	The Economist	
	The State of the Union is fractious	Despite superficial appeals to unity, Donald Trump’s first such speech was as angry and divisive as his presidency		https://www.economist.com/blogs/democracyinamerica/2018/01/full-passionate-intensity	The Economist	
	Why Paris is all wet again	Two years after it last struggled with floods, the metropole is reeling once more		https://www.economist.com/blogs/economist-explains/2018/01/economist-explains-24	The Economist	
	F.B.I. Condemns Push to Release Secret Republican Memo	The bureau is at odds with President Trump, who wants to see the memo, which is said to accuse the F.B.I. and Justice Department of surveillance abuses, made public.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/us/politics/01dc-memo/01dc-memo-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/politics/fbi-director-republicans-secret-memo.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	Those changes, Mr. Schiff argued, meant that the committee should halt the review process and vote on the new, altered memo — a proposition that could potentially take days.  Republicans quickly rejected Mr. Schiff’s charge, saying that it was a “strange attempt to thwart publication of the memo.”  “The committee minority is now complaining about minor edits to the memo, including grammatical fixes and two edits requested by the F.B.I. and by the minority themselves,” a statement from Mr. Nunes’s spokesman, Jack Langer, said. “The vote to release the memo was absolutely procedurally sound, and in accordance with House and committee rules.”  It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Schiff’s claim would have any effect on the outcome.  The president’s stance on the memo puts him at odds with much of his national security establishment. The Justice Department has warned repeatedly that the memo, prepared by Republican staff members on the House Intelligence Committee, is misleading and that its release would set a bad precedent for making government secrets public, including sensitive sources of information and methods of intelligence gathering. F.B.I. officials have said privately that the president is prioritizing politics over national security and is putting the bureau’s reputation at risk.  A White House spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Nunes, of California, described the F.B.I. objections as “spurious” and accused the two law enforcement agencies of making “material omissions” to Congress and the courts.  “It’s clear that top officials used unverified information in a court document to fuel a counterintelligence investigation during an American political campaign,” Mr. Nunes said in a statement. “Once the truth gets out, we can begin taking steps to ensure our intelligence agencies and courts are never misused like this again.”  People who have read the three-and-a-half-page memo say it contends that officials from the F.B.I. and the Justice Department were not forthcoming to a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court judge in seeking the warrant. It says the officials relied on information assembled by a former British intelligence officer, Christopher Steele, without adequately explaining to the judge that Democrats had financed the research.  Mr. Page, a former Moscow-based investment banker, had been on the authorities’ radar for years. He had visited Moscow in July 2016 and was preparing to return there that December when investigators obtained the warrant in October 2016.  The memo has come to the forefront in a string of attempts by Mr. Trump’s allies to shift attention from the special counsel investigation into Russian election meddling and toward the actions of the investigators themselves. Republicans in Congress and in conservative news media have asserted that the memo will show political bias in the early stages of the Russia inquiry.  The Republican-led Intelligence Committee voted along party lines on Monday night to release it, invoking an obscure, never-before-used House rule to sidestep the usual back-and-forth between lawmakers and the executive branch over the government’s most closely held secrets. Democrats on the committee objected and have prepared their own 10-page point-by-point rebuttal of the Republican document. The committee voted against releasing the Democrats’ memo publicly.  Under the rule, Mr. Trump has five days from the time of the vote to try to stop the release for national security reasons.  Democrats have called the Republican document a dangerous effort to build a narrative to undercut the department’s investigation into whether Mr. Trump’s associates colluded with Russians and whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. They say it uses cherry-picked facts assembled with little or no context and could do lasting damage to faith in federal law enforcement.  The F.B.I. statement ran counter to the decidedly low-key approach that Mr. Wray has taken as director, avoiding news media interviews and delivering anodyne speeches to law enforcement groups. He had worked quietly in the hopes of keeping the F.B.I. out of the president’s cross hairs.  Since taking over the F.B.I. about six months ago, Mr. Wray has had to defend the bureau against the president’s broadsides. But the director has done so in a nonconfrontational manner. In December, when Mr. Trump said the F.B.I.’s standing was the “worst in history” and its reputation in “tatters,” Mr. Wray sent a message to the bureau’s more than 35,000 agents and support staff saying that their professionalism and dedication were inspiring.  Stephanie Douglas, a former top F.B.I. executive, said Mr. Wray had to act on his concerns.  “His role as the F.B.I. director is about credibility,” she said. “He’s obligated by his role to speak the truth. I think he did the right thing. That’s his job. If he didn’t say something about a document lacking factual accuracy, he would have to make up for a lot of lost trust.”  Mr. Wray had strongly objected to the move to release the memo and was allowed to review it only on Sunday, after Mr. Nunes relented. Mr. Wray made a last-ditch effort on Monday, going to the White House with the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, to try to persuade the White House to stop the release of the memo. They spoke to John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, but were unsuccessful.  Mr. Rosenstein was also asked by the president last month whether he was “on my team,” according to an official briefed on the exchange. Mr. Rosenstein appeared surprised but responded affirmatively, according to CNN, which first reported the encounter.  Democrats tried ahead of Monday’s vote to allow Mr. Wray to brief the committee on the material underlying the memo — information so sensitive that only two members of the committee had been allowed to view it directly. But Mr. Nunes said that he was investigating the F.B.I. and would not allow the head of an agency under investigation to look at the information, according to a transcript of the closed-door session released on Wednesday.  Mr. Trump could only block the release of the memo, not make it public himself, but with his approval, House Republicans were expected to move quickly to unveil the document.  Ultimately, though, Mr. Trump was eager to see the document released. Even as the White House’s review was continuing, Mr. Trump was overheard on Tuesday night as he exited his first State of the Union address assuring a House Republican that he would see to the document’s release.  “Oh, don’t worry, 100 percent,” Mr. Trump told the lawmaker, Representative Jeff Duncan of South Carolina. “Can you imagine that?”  The memo is also said to highlight the role of several senior law enforcement officials, including Mr. Rosenstein, who authorized a renewal of the surveillance of Mr. Page in the spring of 2017. Mr. Trump has recently expressed his displeasure with Mr. Rosenstein, who oversees the special counsel conducting the Russia investigation, Robert S. Mueller III. And the memo could expose Mr. Rosenstein to some of the criticisms being directed by Republicans at other officials.  Also mentioned is Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy director of the F.B.I., who has been a target of Republicans in Congress and of Mr. Trump. Mr. McCabe stepped down on Monday, telling people close to him that he had felt pressured to because of a separate Justice Department inspector general investigation.  During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Wray foreshadowed Wednesday’s confrontation. He told senators that he was no pushover and would resist political interference.  Mr. Wray has followed through. He resisted White House pressure to replace staff members, including Mr. McCabe, who were once loyal to Mr. Comey, to avoid appearing as though he was taking orders from the president in a job that is supposed to be politically independent. Mr. Wray did eventually sideline Mr. McCabe, who stepped down abruptly, but only after finding cause to do so.  In late September, Mr. Wray said in a speech in Washington that the F.B.I. would abide by the rule of law and that would not change as long as he was director. He also said the F.B.I. would not bow to intimidation.  “We’re going to follow the facts independently,” he said, “no matter where they lead, no matter who likes it.”
	Trump’s Speech Leaves Two Sides Further Apart Than Ever on Immigration	If the president believed his State of the Union address would bring the bipartisan agreement he says he seeks any closer, he received little encouragement on Wednesday.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/us/politics/01dc-assess1/01dc-assess1-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/politics/trump-state-of-the-union-immigration.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	Jason Grumet, the president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, an organization in Washington that favors an agreement, said Mr. Trump clearly wanted to reach an immigration deal but was not receiving good advice about how to achieve that. “Last night’s speech didn’t preclude a deal, but it sure squandered an opportunity to advance one,” he said.  In the address, Mr. Trump offered what he called an “open hand” on the issue of immigration and challenged Congress to “finally get the job done” on a long-delayed overhaul of the system. But in describing the outlines of a plan that he said “fulfills my ironclad pledge to sign a bill that puts America first,” Mr. Trump turned to the disturbing imagery of teenage girls murdered by immigrant members of the MS-13 gang.  With their parents in the audience, Mr. Trump described the night that “these two precious girls were brutally murdered while walking together in their hometown.” Asking the parents to stand, the president said: “Tonight, everyone in this chamber is praying for you. Everyone in America is grieving for you.”  Democrats, in particular, reacted angrily, saying the president was linking immigration to gang violence and murder. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, called the remarks “dangerous” and counterproductive to resolving the debate over the fate of the Dreamers.  “The president presents himself as generous toward Dreamers, but he’s holding them hostage to the most extreme anti-immigrant agenda in generations,” Ms. Pelosi said. “We heard more insulting words of ignorance and prejudice — prejudice toward patriotic immigrant families last night.”  They also heard Mr. Trump try to appropriate the term Dreamer with his applause line about Americans. Publicly and privately, the president has recoiled at using the nickname, instead referring to them as “the DACA people” or the “folks from DACA,” after the acronym for President Barack Obama’s program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, that gives them work permits and protection from deportation. During a White House dinner with the top Democrats in Congress in the fall, Mr. Trump urged them not to use the word Dreamers in public.  He has experimented with phrases to turn the argument around for months. “We must also have heart and compassion for unemployed, struggling and forgotten Americans,” Mr. Trump said in September when he ordered an end to the DACA program. “Above all else, we must remember that young Americans have dreams, too.”  The term Dreamers was tied to legislation that has never passed Congress called the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act, or the Dream Act. Mr. Krikorian said that for too long, liberals had been able to set the terms of the debate. “The very notion, Dreamers, was a marketing coup quite frankly,” he said. “The president’s attempt at taking back the term Dreamers is likely to resonate.”  Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, and other aides devised a four-part plan to carefully navigate the difficult political terrain that has prevented numerous earlier attempts to overhaul immigration during the past two decades.  Part 1 was a concession to immigration activists that would give 1.8 million young immigrants a path to citizenship, effectively restoring and expanding Mr. Obama’s DACA program by enshrining it into law. Part 2 would create a $25 billion trust fund for a border wall. Part 3 would end decades of rules allowing legal immigrants to bring their families to the country. And Part 4 would shut down a lottery program aimed at encouraging immigration from underrepresented countries.  The White House described the plan last week as “extremely generous” and predicted that it would gain wide support from both sides of the aisle. That was probably overly optimistic.  Senators from both parties met before Mr. Trump’s speech on Tuesday to continue negotiations — but without much regard to his four-point plan. One Democratic aide said that the group was largely ignoring the president’s proposals and was making good progress toward a measure that could receive at least the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster. Staff members for the group are scheduled to continue discussions over the weekend.  White House officials dismissed the criticism, pointing to instant polls that showed that large numbers of people agreed with the president’s immigration comments and noting that the speech drew positive reaction from Republicans, conservatives and law enforcement officials.  “It made by heart swell to hear him say Americans have dreams, too,” said Mary Ann Mendoza, whose son was killed in a head-on collision with a car driven by an illegal immigrant who was high on meth. She said Mr. Trump had made a good-faith immigration proposal. “I think the Democrats need to embrace that. They need to go into it with an open mind and get to work.”  Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, rejected the notion that Mr. Trump was refusing to compromise as “laughable.” She pointed out that the president’s plan would provide legal status for nearly three times the number of people who had signed up for protection from deportation under the DACA program started by Mr. Obama.  Mr. Trump’s advisers insisted that Democratic complaints were more evidence that liberal lawmakers did not want to find a solution to fix the immigration system and protect young immigrants.  “They simply are sitting on their hands and being angry instead of coming to the table to have real negotiations,” Ms. Sanders said Wednesday on CNN.
	Mueller Zeros In on Story Put Together About Trump Tower Meeting	Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has pressed witnesses about a statement hastily written last summer aboard Air Force One and wants to know more from President Trump.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/us/politics/01dc-investigate1/01dc-investigate1-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/politics/trump-russia-hope-hicks-mueller.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	Mr. Corallo is planning to tell Mr. Mueller about a previously undisclosed conference call with Mr. Trump and Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, according to the three people. Mr. Corallo planned to tell investigators that Ms. Hicks said during the call that emails written by Donald Trump Jr. before the Trump Tower meeting — in which the younger Mr. Trump said he was eager to receive political dirt about Mrs. Clinton from the Russians — “will never get out.” That left Mr. Corallo with concerns that Ms. Hicks could be contemplating obstructing justice, the people said.  In a statement on Wednesday, a lawyer for Ms. Hicks strongly denied Mr. Corallo’s allegations.  “As most reporters know, it’s not my practice to comment in response to questions from the media. But this warrants a response,” said the lawyer, Robert P. Trout. “She never said that. And the idea that Hope Hicks ever suggested that emails or other documents would be concealed or destroyed is completely false.”  Early on the morning of Friday, July 7, reporters from The Times approached White House officials and lawyers with questions about the Trump Tower meeting a year earlier. The reporters said The Times was preparing a story revealing that the meeting with the Russians had taken place, and asked the White House for more information about its purpose.  The president and senior White House officials were in Germany for the G-20 summit meeting and asked for more time to respond, citing the time difference and conflicting schedules. They scheduled a conference call with the reporters for early the next morning.  The call never happened, so the Times reporters submitted a list of 14 questions about the meeting to the White House and to the lawyers of the Trump campaign aides who attended the meeting. Among the questions: What was discussed, and what did the attendees think was going to be discussed?  President Trump’s aides received the list midflight on Air Force One on the way back from the summit meeting and began writing a response. In the plane’s front cabin, Mr. Trump huddled with Ms. Hicks. During the meeting, according to people familiar with the episode, Ms. Hicks was sending frequent text messages to Donald Trump Jr., who was in New York. Alan Garten, a lawyer for the younger Mr. Trump who was also in New York, was also messaging with White House advisers aboard the plane.  Marc E. Kasowitz, the president’s personal lawyer, was not included in the discussion.  The president supervised the writing of the statement, according to three people familiar with the episode, with input from other White House aides. A fierce debate erupted over how much information the news release should include. Mr. Trump was insistent about including language that the meeting was about Russian adoptions, according to two people with knowledge of the discussion.  By early afternoon, The Times received a separate statement, from Jamie S. Gorelick, a lawyer at the time for Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser. The statement said little about the meeting, except that Mr. Kushner had “briefly attended at the request of his brother-in-law Donald Trump Jr.”  It left nearly all of the questions unanswered — and seemed to put the onus on Donald Trump Jr. to answer them. Nearly four hours later, the statement that had been cobbled together aboard Air Force One was sent to The Times. The statement was in Donald Trump Jr.’s name and was issued by Mr. Garten.  “It was a short introductory meeting,” it read. “I asked Jared and Paul to stop by. We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at that time and there was no follow up.”  According to four people familiar with the discussions, Donald Trump Jr. had insisted that the word “primarily” be included in the statement.  The Times published its story about the Trump Tower meeting, with the statement, at 5 p.m. Not long after, the news site Circa published a different version, saying that the June 2016 meeting had been set up “to discuss a Russian policy.” Mr. Corallo, the spokesman for the legal team, said in that story that the Russians had “misrepresented who they were and who they worked for.” He, along with the rest of the president’s legal team, was not consulted about Donald Trump Jr.’s statement before it was released.  He suggested that the meeting might have been set up by Democratic operatives, connecting one of the Russians in the meeting, Natalia V. Veselnitskaya, to the research firm that helped produce an unverified dossier that contained salacious allegations about Mr. Trump’s connections to Russia.  The dueling statements, both of which withheld the true purpose of the meeting, created tension at the White House.  Accusations began flying that the botched response made an already bad situation worse. Ms. Hicks called Mr. Corallo, according to three people who relayed his version of events to The Times. She accused him of trafficking in conspiracy theories and drawing more attention to the story.  The conference call with the president, Mr. Corallo and Ms. Hicks took place the next morning, and what transpired on the call is a matter of dispute.  In Mr. Corallo’s account — which he provided contemporaneously to three colleagues who later gave it to The Times — he told both Mr. Trump and Ms. Hicks that the statement drafted aboard Air Force One would backfire because documents would eventually surface showing that the meeting had been set up for the Trump campaign to get political dirt about Mrs. Clinton from the Russians.  According to his account, Ms. Hicks responded that the emails “will never get out” because only a few people had access to them. Mr. Corallo, who worked as a Justice Department spokesman during the George W. Bush administration, told colleagues he was alarmed not only by what Ms. Hicks had said — either she was being naïve or was suggesting that the emails could be withheld from investigators — but also that she had said it in front of the president without a lawyer on the phone and that the conversation could not be protected by attorney-client privilege.  Contacted on Wednesday, Mr. Corallo said he did not dispute any of the account shared by his colleagues but declined to elaborate further.  Even if Mr. Corallo is correct and Ms. Hicks was hinting at an attempt to conceal the emails, doing so would have been nearly impossible. Congress had requested records from Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman; Mr. Kushner; and other Trump campaign officials about meetings with Russians. And lawyers had already copied and stamped the emails for delivery to Capitol Hill.  When the president began questioning Mr. Corallo about the nature of the documents, Mr. Corallo cut off the conversation and urged the president to continue the discussion with his lawyers.  Mr. Corallo told colleagues that he immediately notified the legal team of the conversation and jotted down notes to memorialize it. He also shared his concerns with Stephen K. Bannon, then the president’s chief strategist.  Mr. Corallo left the job shortly after the phone call. The recent book “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” by Michael Wolff, which was met with angry denunciations by the president, linked Mr. Corallo’s resignation to concerns he had about obstruction, but provided no details.  In the days that followed the Air Force One statement, The Times revealed that the true purpose of the June 2016 meeting was to obtain damaging information about Mrs. Clinton, which was being offered as “part of Russia and its government’s support” for Mr. Trump. The younger Mr. Trump ultimately released the emails after being told The Times was about to publish them.  Within weeks, Mr. Mueller sent out grand jury subpoenas for documents and interviews about the June 2016 meeting.
	Justice Department Dismisses Corruption Case Against Menendez	The decision will allow Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, to run for re-election without having to face a new trial.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/nyregion/01menendez/01menendez-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/nyregion/justice-department-moves-to-dismiss-corruption-case-against-menendez.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	That decision drastically limited the kinds of “official acts” performed by lawmakers that can constitute bribery or corruption, with the court ruling that only specific actions could be deemed to cross a legal line.  The definition of an official act loomed over Mr. Menendez’s first trial and Judge Walls referred repeatedly to the McDonnell ruling throughout the case. The trial ended in a hung jury in November with the majority of jurors supporting acquittal. Last week, Judge Walls dismissed seven of the 18 charges that Mr. Menendez and Dr. Melgen faced.  “This D.O.J. action seems to speak volumes about the difficulty D.O.J. confronts when seeking to prove corruption,” said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond. He added that the “motion today may make the initial decision to retry seem more political now.”  Mr. Menendez had claimed vindication after the mistrial and on Wednesday he was quick to celebrate the end of the case.  “From the very beginning, I never wavered in my innocence and my belief that justice would prevail,” he said in a statement. “I am grateful that the Department of Justice has taken the time to re-evaluate its case and come to the appropriate conclusion.”  The initial indictment against Mr. Menendez was brought in 2015, well before the Supreme Court’s McDonnell decision in 2016. Since then, political corruption cases against two of New York State’s major power brokers, Dean G. Skelos, the former Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the former speaker of the Assembly, were both overturned by judges who cited the McDonnell decision.  In seeking to press their case against Mr. Menendez, prosecutors not only would have had to likely address the Supreme Court’s ruling, but they would have been armed with a smaller trove of evidence given the reduced number of charges, a combination that seems to have led to the decision not to move forward.  “To me, it was an overall evaluation of what’s left. Can we get some of these key pieces of remaining evidence in?” said Rebecca Monck Ricigliano, a former federal prosecutor. “And then, is it going to be enough to meet this heightened standard?”  Despite the jury’s inability to reach a verdict in November, Mr. Menendez emerged politically wounded. Polls immediately after the mistrial showed a majority of voters believed that he should not run in November. But he enjoyed the support of nearly every key Democratic leader in the state, including Gov. Philip D. Murphy, who on Wednesday said that “the notion to have two extraordinary senators in this state, unencumbered, 1,000 percent focused on pushing forth the interest of the nine million folks who call New Jersey home is a new and great day.”  Mr. Menendez now enjoys a clearer path to victory in the Democratic primary and in his campaign for his third full term in the Senate. “Senator Menendez is looking forward to running a strong campaign and onto victory in November, fighting for the people of New Jersey against Donald Trump’s failed policies,” said Michael Soliman, a top political adviser to Mr. Menendez.  Having started his career in New Jersey politics at age 20 on the Union City school board, Mr. Menendez methodically worked his way up the state’s political ladder — mayor, assemblyman, state senator and congressman — before reaching the United States Senate in 2005. And in a state with a long and deep history of political back scratching, accusations of wrongdoing dogged him for years before he was indicted three years ago along with his longtime friend, Dr. Melgen.  The decision by the Justice Department is a relief for Mr. Menendez and Democratic Party leaders who were facing the prospect of having to spend resources to defend a reliably blue state in a midterm election in which 10 Democratic senators are fighting to keep seats in states where President Trump won.  It is also welcome news to other Democratic candidates in New Jersey, who feared that having Mr. Menendez under indictment at the top of the ticket could dampen turnout or enthusiasm as the party seeks to pick up as many as four seats as part of a national effort to win back control of the House.  After Mr. Menendez’s first trial ended, one juror told reporters that the panel had been deadlocked 10 to 2 in favor of a not-guilty verdict. Mr. Menendez had been charged with using the power of his office to do favors for Dr. Melgen in exchange for lavish gifts, trips on a private plane and political contributions.  Despite Mr. Menendez’s legal victory, Republicans said they would not back down from their efforts to target the incumbent senator. Robert Hugin, a pharmaceutical executive with ties to former Gov. Chris Christie, is exploring a general election challenge and could tap his substantial personal wealth to fund a campaign.  “New Jersey voters will continue to be reminded of Menendez’s dishonest schemes as the election approaches in November,” said Bob Salera, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.  The decision to drop the charges caught many by surprise, including lawyers for Mr. Menendez and Dr. Melgen. On Wednesday, they had been gathered at the federal courthouse for a meeting on the case when Peter Koski, the lead prosecutor, approached them and told them the news.  “We asked him to repeat it,” said Raymond Brown, one of Mr. Menendez’s lawyers. “It was the last thing we expected to hear.”  The defense lawyers did not ask what prompted the change of heart.  “There’s an old adage in the law that he who stands well stands silent,” Mr. Brown said. “We did not inquire to the reason. We embraced the result.”
	Train Carrying Republican Lawmakers to Retreat Crashes Into Truck	One person in the truck was killed in the rural Virginia crash, and the lawmakers were preparing to take buses to their resort in West Virginia.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/us/01xp-train3/01xp-train3-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/us/gop-retreat-train-crash.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	
	Xerox, an Innovator Hit by Digital Revolution, Cedes Control to Fujifilm	The American company pioneered office copy machines and the graphic interface used by today’s computers. But it was unable to turn that technology into a success.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/business/01XEROX-web/01XEROX-web-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/business/dealbook/xerox-fujifilm.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	Under the deal, Fujifilm will own just over 50 percent of the Xerox business. There are plans to cut $1.7 billion in costs in coming years. Fujifilm said it would cut its payroll by 10,000 workers worldwide.  How Xerox fell so far is a case study in what management experts call the “competency trap” — an organization becomes so good at one thing, it can’t learn to do anything new.  Xerox traces its origins to the founding in 1903 of the M. H. Kuhn Company. But it was an invention dreamed up in a makeshift Queens lab in the 1930s — a forerunner of the Silicon Valley garages used by the likes of Mr. Jobs — that changed Xerox’s trajectory.  That invention, by Chester Carlson, a patent lawyer, led to the creation of the modern copy machine. He even came up with a term for the process: “xerography.” In 1959, Xerox, which had won the right to explore the technology, offered the office copier that went mainstream.  Soon, Xerox copying machines were a booming business and central to office life, a spot for informal conversations and gossip. In larger companies, “Xerox rooms” became a place to hang out.  High-end Xerox machines — essentially, complex paper-processing computers — became symbols of modern technology, sometimes getting the upper hand on hapless humans. In a classic scene from the 1980 movie “9 to 5,” a copier overwhelms an office newcomer played by Jane Fonda.  Its corporate name even became a verb.  During the good times, Xerox invested in new technology. In the 1970s, it set up a research center in Palo Alto, Calif., far away from its East Coast headquarters. Its goal was to invent the office technology of the future.  The technologists at the lab, the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, did not invent the computer mouse and graphical-user interface. But they refined them and built a usable prototype personal computer, the Alto. More than 1,000 Altos were made and put to work, including a few in Jimmy Carter’s White House.  In 1979, in a visit that is the stuff of business legend, Mr. Jobs toured the lab. Later, the ideas he saw there found their way into the Apple Macintosh.  Over the years, Apple has had its own ups and downs. But whenever Mr. Jobs became convinced that something new was afoot, he moved forcefully and refocused the company. He did not fall into the competency trap, and today Apple is the most valuable corporation in the world.  At Xerox, when the corporate managers took over its personal computer project and tried to commercialize the Alto, named the Xerox Star, they priced it at more than $16,000. It flopped.  The Xerox Star was priced more like a copier, an expensive office machine, rather than a personal computer. In 1981, the same year the Star came to market, IBM introduced its PC for business, pricing it at less than $1,600. Three years later, the Apple Macintosh sold for about $2,500.  In the 1980s, with the patents on its copier technology expiring, Xerox faced stiff competition from lower-cost Japanese competitors like Canon and Ricoh. With its business under pressure, Xerox dabbled in financial services. It bought a casualty insurer, Crum & Forster, and an investment management firm, Van Kampen Merritt.  The move into financial services ran into trouble, and the company sold it all off in the 1990s.  Since then, Xerox has struggled with the rise of email and the move by offices around the world to send and share documents electronically. Less paper and fewer copies undermined the company’s once lucrative franchise.  In recent years, Xerox moved to recast itself more as a business services supplier, helping companies streamline their flow of documents and work in fields like health care, human resources and financial compliance. It won some high-profile contracts — like operating the computer and payment systems behind E-ZPass highway tolls.  Yet none of its efforts delivered a sizable profit maker to make up for its declining copier business. Carl C. Icahn, the activist shareholder, pushed the company to go further.  “We believe Xerox still has potential, but it will go the way of Kodak if there aren’t major changes,” Mr. Icahn said in December.  The company’s leaders saw the problem. “The world is changing,” Ursula Burns, then chief executive, said in an interview with NPR in 2012. “And as that world changes, if you don’t transform your company, you’re stuck.”  Xerox never managed to get ahead of the digital wave to enjoy anything like its former prosperity.  Under the deal announced on Wednesday, Xerox, of Norwalk, Conn., will become part of an existing Fuji Xerox joint venture, which sells office products and services in the Asia-Pacific region. As part of the deal, it will issue a combined $2.5 billion in cash dividends to its shareholders.  The combined company is expected to have $18 billion in annual revenue and will continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under Xerox’s ticker symbol, XRX.  “I am confident that Fujifilm’s ability to drive change as well as its experience of successful reinvention will give a competitive edge to the new Fuji Xerox,” Shigetaka Komori, chairman and chief executive officer of Fujifilm, said in a written statement.  Fujifilm still makes film, but it has branched out considerably, using its chemical and imaging technology in products as varied as ingredients in cosmetics and medical equipment.  Still, Fujifilm said on Wednesday that there were challenges ahead. The company reduced its expectations for operating income by nearly 30 percent in an earnings forecast. It warned that the environment for its Fuji Xerox venture was “increasingly severe” and said that “a fundamental structural reform will be implemented.”  Xerox’s shares, which have been mostly flat in recent years despite a broad run-up in the stock market, rose about 12 percent over the past month in anticipation of a deal.  The joint venture with Fuji, begun in the early 1960s, has been a bright spot for Xerox, said Ben Gomes-Casseres, a professor at the Brandeis International Business School.  Initially the stronger partner, Xerox has benefited from shared technology and know-how from its Japanese partner. The merger, Mr. Gomes-Casseres said, is probably the best path ahead for Xerox.  “They could have failed years ago without Fuji,” he said.
	Justice Dept. Escalates Inquiry on Global Sports Corruption	United States prosecutors are investigating executives involved with bids for major global sporting events run by FIFA, the I.O.C. and the U.S.O.C.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/01/sports/01sportspic1/merlin_109509364_392d92c7-72bc-4def-a9c0-9198e9496bfa-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/31/sports/fifa-ioc-usoc-iaaf.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	A spokesman for the Eastern District declined to comment on Wednesday.  The individuals summoned to provide information, including personal and corporate bank records, were asked to appear in federal court in Brooklyn as soon as this week.  The government’s request came just as global sports officials prepared to travel to Pyeongchang, South Korea, for the Winter Olympics, and as the United States Olympic Committee has been roiled by the case of Lawrence G. Nassar, a former doctor for the American gymnastics team convicted of sexually abusing scores of young athletes.  A spokesman for the U.S.O.C. declined to comment on Wednesday. A spokeswoman for the world governing body of track and field said the organization had not been contacted by American investigators. “We stand ready to cooperate, if they do,” she said.  The International Olympic Committee, too, had not been contacted, a spokesman for the organization said, minimizing the organization’s relevance to any potential inquiry. Prosecutors have broadly requested emails, text messages, notes and contracts relating to the I.O.C. over the last five years; the same is true for the other organizations.  Among the specific sports marketing companies that prosecutors are scrutinizing, according to the subpoena, is Helios Partners, a firm that has lobbied global sports officials to award high-profile events to particular cities and countries. Helios helped Russia secure the 2014 Winter Olympics and the coming 2018 World Cup, before its acquisition in 2012 by the Amaury Group, a French media company.  American prosecutors are also specifically interested in Eugene’s successful bid for the track and field event, which the U.S.O.C. actively supported, and Doha’s successful effort to host the 2019 edition of that competition, which occurs every two years.  Abroad, the same competitions have drawn intense scrutiny. France’s national financial prosecutor’s office has been investigating the track and field governing body and its choices of Eugene and Doha. Track and field’s world governing body gave the 2021 event to Eugene without a bidding process. The BBC reported in June that the F.B.I. and the I.R.S. were investigating Eugene’s selection.  Lamine Diack, who ran the international track federation for 16 years and served as a longtime member of the I.O.C., has been detained in France since November 2015, accused of accepting bribes for covering up the doping violations of Russian athletes.  Connections to Mr. Diack and his son led the Brazilian authorities to arrest Carlos Arthur Nuzman, the head of Brazil’s Olympic committee, last fall amid suspicions that Rio de Janeiro’s successful bid to stage the 2016 Summer Games was helped by bribery to secure supportive votes from members of the I.O.C.  The wide net newly cast by American prosecutors suggests overlapping threads with the French investigation, but the Justice Department is also soliciting broader information, including about FIFA — suggesting that American authorities’ scrutiny of that organization, which figured prominently into a federal trial late last year, is far from over.  FIFA itself has sought to turn the page on its corruption scandal, emphasizing its status as a victim in the American case and its cooperation with investigators. Former officials were charged with an array of crimes, including racketeering conspiracy and fraud — the same issues central to the prosecutors’ continuing scrutiny.  FIFA, too, has a major competition scheduled to be held in Qatar: the 2022 World Cup. At the FIFA trial last year, new information emerged about alleged bribery that helped to steer that tournament to Qatar.
	Jamaica Has Never Had Olympic Synchronized Swimmers. These Girls Want to Change That.	Meet Ajoni, Katana, Joydayne, Laila, and Nyouka: the band of athletes that makes up the Island Aquatics Synchro Club.	https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/01/29/style/01JAMAICA-SWIM-alpha/01JAMAICA-SWIM-alpha-thumbStandard.jpg	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/29/travel/jamaica-girls-synchronized-swimming-olympics.html?ref=todayspaper	New York Times	PORT ANTONIO, Jamaica — Port Antonio is known for its water. It is home to the Blue Lagoon, a placid pool fed by the Caribbean Sea that is surrounded by waterfalls, a lush green jungle and a string of idyllic beachside resorts.  All that water is a natural training camp for the band of girls who have their hearts set on an unusual dream for this island nation: to someday compete as synchronized swimmers in the Olympics .  The sport has never quite taken root here. Though the specialty has been an Olympic event for more than 30 years , it is far less established than other water sports, like diving and swimming, which have been around since the early 1900s. For a small country, Jamaica has won an impressive 78 Olympic medals , but there has never been a Jamaican synchronized swimming team in the Olympics. And for a country surrounded by water, it has never won an Olympic medal for an aquatic sport.  But that isn’t going to discourage the magnitude of these girls’ dreams. Th ose dreams have formed around Olga Novokshchenova , a Russian two-time Olympic gold medalis t in synchronized swimming, who began teaching out of her home in Port Antonio. She started with one student, the daughter of a friend. “That poor girl, she was actually dreaming to do springboard diving, but we didn’t have that, so I said, ‘Well you are going to have to do synchronized swimming,’” she said.  Novokshchenova now coaches five athletes at her house : Ajoni Llewellyn, 17; Katana Blount, 10; Joydayne Whyte, 9; Laila Bailey, 12; and Nyouka Baugh, 15. They train four days a week and call themselves the Island Aquatics Synchro Club. It is not surprising that at practices there is a sense of sisterhood. Theirs is the only club for synchronized swimming that remains in Jamaica. (There was one in Kingston, but it disbanded.)  For more Surfacing pieces, click here.  One of swimmers, Joydayne Whyte, remembers the moment she decided that she wanted to be an Olympic athlete. She was 3 years old. She was sitting in her home in Port Antonio, mesmerized as she watched synchronized swim teams competing in the Olympics as they twirled, bobbed and danced in brightly colored swimsuits and glistening makeup.  “I want to do that!” she exclaimed to her mother, Andrea Rodgers.  Rodgers herself had not learned how to swim. But she wanted to fulfill her daughter’s every wish. So she sought out a teacher.  “It is my dream to continue swimming, to win and go to the Olympics and come first,” said Joydayne , a fourth grader, who has been Novokshchenova’s student now for two years. Last year, she qualified for the national team in synchronized swimming and represented Jamaica at the Central American and Caribbean Championshi ps.  Novokshchenova estimated that she has taught about 100 swimming students over the 12 years she has lived in Port Antonio. She would pick out the strongest swimmers of those she was teaching and ask if they were interested in synchronized swimming. Slowly, she started building a team.  Katana was one of Novokshchenova’s beginner swimming students, and her father encouraged her to join the synchronized swimming team. “He is always smiling and taking pictures,” she said, adding that swimming on the team makes her feel special. She has even taught several of her family members how to swim at the beach.  Jacqueline Neil, the mother of one of the swimmers , is known as “team mom ,” and she arranged an overnight camping trip and a workshop at which a doctor talked about their health and periods.  On a recent day in Port Antonio, the five atheletes arrived at Novokshchenova’s pool, still dressed in their school uniforms. They changed into their swimsuits and began to stretch. Training begins at 3 p. m .  Ajoni made her way into the pool.  She floated, slowly subm erging her head in the water.  “One, two, three, four ... ,” said Novokshchenova as a timer ticked.  Ajon i gracefully tilted vertically until just her perfectly arched feet pointed above water.  “Nineteen,” her coach shouted as Ajoni came up gasping for air.  The team swims for three hours until about 6 p.m., when the sun sets, so the younger girls can get home before it gets too dark . Novokshchenova would like to be able to train them somewhere more central and accessible, but there are no public pools in Port Antonio .  The expense of traveling to and from Novokshchenova’s house is quite an investment for the athletes’ families. The swimmers take taxis both ways four days a week, and that cost is an obstacle when recruiting new team members. The coach said that she had four other girls who wanted to join the team but that their families could not afford the taxi fare.  Attracting and sustaining new members is one of the biggest obstacles of trying to reach their Olympic dreams. The athletes had their hearts set on qualifying for the duets category for the 2020 Summer Olympics . But they needed at least two swimmers in the same age range. Nyouka and her partner were training, but her partner moved abroad. At one point, they had 14 swimmers on the team, but now there are only five. It has been a challenge to keep the team motivated when there are so few people doing synchronized swimming in Jamaica.  Ajoni said that none of her other friends at school knew how to swim.  “My dream is to make synchronized swimming more known in Jamaica,” said Nyouka, who has been swimming for seven years. Her mother encourages her to continue training, reminding her what she would be doing if she weren’t swimming: “Nothing,” Nyouka said, laughing.  The club is self-funded, and the swimmers’ parents pay about $100 every three months, not including international traveling costs, tournament fees, training expenses and competition swimsuits. The club relies on private donations and organizes fund-raisers to pay for the team’s overseas trips and expenses.  In 2013, the team competed for the first time at a major event, the UANA Pan American Synchronized Swimming Championship s. The team did not, however, have beginner’s luck. They finished “dead last ,” said Jacqueline Neil, the team’s manager and Ajoni’s mother. “But the exposure was great. The girls had a whale of a time, and despite everything, they were the stars,” she said. “There were very few black teams.”  “I hated the water. It was really cold,” said Nyouka of the event, her first competition . She said that it was scary because it was her first time performing before so many people.  Two years later, the team placed fourth in the same competition, making it the highest place Jamaica has ranked.  “We actually made history because it was the first time coming so close up in that kind of a competition,” Nyouka said. “It felt good.”  Last year, the team traveled to Orlando, Fla., to compete in a junior Olympic championship. They placed highly in many of the categories. Laila and Joydayne won first place in the duets category; Laila got second place and Joydayne got fourth place in the 12-and-under category; Nyouka came in third place in the solo category and second in duets in the 13-15 age group; and Ajoni placed fourth in juniors.  Laila had injured her leg just before the competition. “I had to bear the pain because I don’t like losing,” she said. She feels that her swimming performances help with her stage fright and that they will aid her in her professional life when she has to speak publicly.  “Maybe I’ll get a job that I will have to make a speech or when I am graduating from high school and I have to make a speech, I’ll be more brave,” she said, adding, “I want to be someone that everyone else will be watching someday .”  On a recent sunny day in January, Ajoni was celebrating her 17th birthday. As her present, she wanted to go to the beach with her teammates. She dreams of one day being an Olympian. But she also hopes to become a marine biologist and doesn’t think that she can continue training if she goes to college after graduatin g from high school.  They a ll gathered at Frenchman’s Cove, a serene small beach where a natural river meets the Caribbean Sea with pristine clear waters. As they were about to enter the river side of the beach, a lifeguard approached them, warning of a strong current.  And they ran into the water.
	White House: Trump Is Expected to Approve Release of Classified Memo	President Donald Trump is expected to tell Congress as early as Friday that he has approved the release of a classified memo that Republicans allege shows improper surveillance of a onetime Trump campaign aide, a White House official said.	https://images.wsj.net/im-1698?width=262&height=174	https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-reviews-classified-gop-memo-but-no-decision-yet-on-its-release-1517512378	The Wall Street Journal	WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump is expected to tell Congress as early as Friday that he has approved the release of a classified memo that Republicans allege shows improper surveillance of a onetime Trump campaign aide, a White House official said Thursday.  The official said Mr. Trump made his decision after reviewing the memo and ensuring “it doesn’t give away too much in terms of classification.” The official said the White House doesn’t expect the memo to include any redactions recommended by intelligence officials. “It’s...
	Google Parent Alphabet and Aramco in Talks to Build Tech Hub in Saudi Arabia	Saudi Arabia’s state-owned oil giant and Google parent Alphabet Inc., two of the world’s biggest companies, are in talks about jointly building a large technology hub inside the kingdom, people familiar with the potential deal said. ​	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG362_37gsU_D_20180131160718.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/google-parent-alphabet-and-aramco-in-talks-to-build-tech-hub-in-saudi-arabia-1517495498	The Wall Street Journal	​Google handles 90% of the world's internet searches, and it increasingly is promoting a single answer for many questions. Even subjective or unanswerable queries sometimes get seemingly definitive answers. Here's how the algorithms are -- and aren't -- working. Video/Photo Illustration: Heather Seidel/The Wall Street Journal  Saudi Arabia’s state-owned oil giant and Google parent Alphabet Inc., two of the world’s biggest companies, are in talks about jointly building a large technology hub inside the kingdom, people familiar with the potential deal said. ​  As part of the potential joint venture, Alphabet would help Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Aramco, build data centers around Saudi Arabia, the people said. It isn’t clear specifically whose data the centers would house or who would control them.
	Steve Wynn Fallout Could Rattle Upstart Stock Exchange’s Plans	The sexual-misconduct allegations against Steve Wynn could impact a company that has little to do with casinos: IEX Group, a startup stock exchange that is looking to shake up the business of U.S. corporate listings.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG577_2wzfZ_D_20180131193513.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/steve-wynn-fallout-could-rattle-new-exchanges-plans-1517481000	The Wall Street Journal	The sexual-misconduct allegations against Steve Wynn could impact a company that has little to do with casinos: IEX Group Inc., a startup stock exchange that is looking to shake up the business of U.S. corporate listings.  Wynn Resorts, the casino mogul’s company, is the only firm that has publicly expressed an interest in listing on IEX, the heroes of Michael Lewis’s 2014 best-seller “Flash Boys.” IEX is in the final stages of preparing to launch a listings business that would compete with the New York Stock Exchange and...
	Health Effort by Amazon, Others Aims to Succeed Where Others Have Failed	The planned venture from Amazon.com, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase to overhaul worker health care follows years of similar efforts to change an entrenched industry, with mixed success.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG782_EMPLOY_D_20180201100728.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/employers-struggle-to-make-a-dent-in-health-costs-1517502768	The Wall Street Journal	The planned venture by Amazon.com Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to overhaul their workers’ health care follows years of similar efforts by employers to change a complex and entrenched industry, with mixed success.  The three big companies shook up health-care firms’ shares Tuesday by saying they will form a not-for-profit company to reduce costs and improve the health-care experience of hundreds of thousands of U.S. employees. People with knowledge of the matter said nothing had been decided beyond...
	Pope Francis to Bow to China With Concession on Bishops	Pope Francis has decided to accept the legitimacy of seven Catholic bishops appointed by the Chinese government, a concession that the Holy See hopes will lead Beijing to recognize the pope’s authority as head of the Catholic Church in China, according to a person familiar with the plan.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG951_POPESI_D_20180201125701.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/pope-francis-to-bow-to-china-with-concession-on-bishops-1517507751	The Wall Street Journal	Pope Francis has decided to accept the legitimacy of seven Catholic bishops appointed by the Chinese government, a concession that the Holy See hopes will lead Beijing to recognize the pope’s authority as head of the Catholic Church in China, according to a person familiar with the plan.  For years, the Vatican didn’t recognize their ordinations, which were done in defiance of the pope and considered illicit, part of a long-running standoff between the Catholic Church and China’s officially atheist Communist Party.
	Olympics Committee Failed to Act on Nassar’s Alleged Abuse for a Full Year	The U.S. Olympic Committee didn’t intervene in USA Gymnastics’ handling of sexual-abuse allegations against longtime national-team doctor Larry Nassar in 2015, even after USA Gymnastics’ then-president told two top USOC executives of possible criminal behavior.	https://images.wsj.net/im-1671?width=262&height=174	https://www.wsj.com/articles/olympics-officials-didnt-act-on-gymnasts-abuse-allegations-in-2015-1517484720	The Wall Street Journal	The U.S. Olympic Committee didn’t intervene in USA Gymnastics’ handling of sexual-abuse allegations against longtime national-team doctor Larry Nassar in 2015, even after USA Gymnastics’ then-president told two top USOC executives that an internal investigation had uncovered possible criminal behavior by the doctor against Olympic athletes.  The communications—a July 2015 phone call and a September 2015 email described to The Wall Street Journal by people familiar with the matter—shed new light on the Olympic Committee’s knowledge...
	Charity Funds Take Off as Tax Law Reshapes Giving	U.S. taxpayers late last year flooded into charitable-giving vehicles known as donor-advised funds that distribute to nonprofits over time, a sign that the new tax law could reshape how Americans give away money for years to come.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-WR883_3kYTD_D_20171220144907.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/charity-funds-take-off-as-tax-law-reshapes-giving-1517502089	The Wall Street Journal	Christmas may be over but WSJ’s Richard Rubin keeps the holiday spirit alive by explaining who’s getting presents and who’s getting coal with the GOP tax bill.  U.S. taxpayers late last year poured money into charitable-giving vehicles known as donor-advised funds that allow immediate deductions and gradual distributions to nonprofits, a sign that the new tax law could reshape how Americans give away money for years to come.  Americans were trying to make their donations before the new year, when, for tax purposes, giving became less advantageous for many households. So many turned to donor-advised funds run by local nonprofits and some entities affiliated with big money-management...
	iPhone Price Increases Could Charge Up Apple’s Revenue	Apple is scheduled to report results for its fiscal first quarter, which ended Dec. 30, after the market closes Thursday.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG584_3n4lz_D_20180131213606.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/apple-expected-to-report-higher-prices-drove-record-quarterly-revenue-1517482800	The Wall Street Journal	On the iPhone’s 10th birthday, former Apple executives Scott Forstall, Tony Fadell and Greg Christie recount the arduous process of turning Steve Jobs’s vision into one of the best-selling products ever made.  Apple Inc. is scheduled to report results for its fiscal first quarter, which ended Dec. 30, after the market closes Thursday. Here’s what you need to know.  EARNINGS FORECAST: Earnings of $3.86 a share is the consensus of analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, compared with $3.36 a share a year ago. The company hasn’t provided earnings guidance for the quarter but in November said it expects gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5% in the quarter.
	How Nick Saban Could Help Bill Belichick Win a Super Bowl	The Eagles and Nick Foles thrive running run-pass options—the plays that frustrated Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban, until he embraced it.	https://images.wsj.net/im-1679?width=262&height=174	https://www.wsj.com/articles/how-nick-saban-could-help-bill-belichick-win-a-super-bowl-1517510367	The Wall Street Journal	The Super Bowl will come down to a scheme that has rankled college football coaches for years and capsized traditional NFL offenses more recently. When executed to perfection, it makes the best defenses look witless and the best coaches feel helpless.  Run-pass options have never been more important than in today’s modern...
	The New Robot Revolution in Manufacturing	Hundreds of millions of jobs affected. Trillions of dollars of wealth created. These are the potential impacts of a coming wave of automation. We traveled to Asia to see the next generation of industrial robots, what they’re capable of, and whether they’re friend or foe to low-skilled workers.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG554_indust_D_20180131181735.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-robot-revolution-manufacturing-2-0-moving-upstream-1517481002	The Wall Street Journal	Hundreds of millions of jobs affected. Trillions of dollars of wealth created. These are the potential impacts of a coming wave of automation. In this episode of Moving Upstream, we travelled to Asia to see the next generation of industrial robots, what they're capable of, and whether they’re friend or foe to low-skilled workers.  Some economists are saying that the world is entering a “second machine age.”  Artificial intelligence and other advancements are enabling robots to perform tasks that, until recently, only human eyes, hands and minds could handle.  In this episode of Moving Upstream, we traveled through Asia to see the next generation of robots. And we were...
	America’s Instant-Pot Anxiety: ‘I Said a Prayer and Stayed the Hell Away’	The all-in-one cooking device was one of the biggest sellers of the 2017 holiday season. Now comes the hard part for rookies—how to use it.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG738_0201IN_D_20180201064343.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/americas-instant-pot-anxiety-i-said-a-prayer-and-stayed-the-hell-away-1517500211	The Wall Street Journal	Deryl Gallant regrets only skimming the manual for his Instant Pot.  He first tried to make spaghetti, but he didn’t use enough water and it burned. He looked online for ways to clean the scorched pot and followed the steps: Add four cups of water and turn the pressure-cooker function on high.  “Then, like a fool,” he says, “I did the quick...
	The Craft Beer Explosion: How to Taste Your Way to What You Really Want	Once craft beer was the domain of a small cult of brew geeks. Now, brands and styles abound. How did we get here, and what’s the best way to navigate the ocean of options?	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG835_COVER_D_20180201113526.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-craft-beer-explosion-how-to-find-the-brews-for-you-1517509748	The Wall Street Journal	GLASSES CLINK over the murmur of barside conversation. A pinball machine pings in the corner. The worn wooden bar is scattered with pint glasses and baskets of popcorn, lit by the flicker of a game on TV. On an ordinary block west of downtown Cleveland, Jukebox appears to be the classic American watering hole.  But look closer. On the grill: vegan pierogies filled with locally made kraut. And in the glasses: craft beer. Welcome to the modern neighborhood bar.
	A Super Bowl That’s Hard to Cuddle	Brady-Foles! Belichick-Pederson! Who do you have in the brawl of New England and Philadelphia?	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-XG792_bradyf_D_20180201102307.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/a-super-bowl-thats-hard-to-cuddle-1517502850	The Wall Street Journal	A long, long time ago, the New England Patriots were adorable. Adorable!  It’s true. You have to believe me on this. The Patriots were once so hapless, you couldn’t help but love them.  You know when the dog sticks his head in a grocery bag and can’t shake it off, and ends up walking into the refrigerator door?
	Estate Sales Are Cool Again	A new generation of collectors is scouring the homes of deceased celebrities and business titans in search of relics from a bygone time.	https://s.wsj.net/public/resources/images/MN-AQ655_ESTATE_D_20180131161947.jpg	https://www.wsj.com/articles/estate-sales-are-cool-again-1517496775	The Wall Street Journal	The wood wall paneling from Sweden was still there, as was the artwork and even the reddish-brown bedding. Normally, a home with decades-old décor might struggle to find a buyer.  But this was the Manhattan home of Greta Garbo, the movie star who retired from Hollywood and led an intensely private life—a choice that seemed to only deepen fans’ fascination. Last month, the apartment the actress called home for nearly 40 years sold for $8.5 million, or a 43% premium over its asking price. “The Garbo effect is the reason someone...
	Girl, 12, held in LA school shooting			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42897626	BBC News	Two teenage students have been shot at a Los Angeles school, and police say that the female attacker is in custody and her weapon has been seized.  The gunfire broke out at 08:55 local time (16:55 GMT) at Salvador Castro Middle School in the Westlake District.  A 15-year-old boy who was shot in the head is in "critical but stable" condition, and a girl, 15, was shot in the wrist, officials say.  Three others, aged 11 to 30, suffered minor injuries, police say.  The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) told the BBC the suspect is a 12-year-old girl.  A spokesman for the LAPD tells BBC Los Angeles correspondent James Cook that police do not believe this is an ongoing threat, but added that police are still searching the area to check for any additional victims or weapons.  The school will remain on lockdown for the remainder of the day, officials added.  An 11-year-old boy, a 12-year-old girl and a 30-year-old woman reportedly sustained minor injuries, with abrasions to the head and face but were not shot, said Fire Department Captain Erick Scott at a news conference.  Authorities have not released a suspected motive for the shooting, or more details of how the girl was arrested.  Steve Zipperman, the chief of police for Los Angeles schools, said that investigators will carefully examine the case and will make trauma counsellors available to any students who may need them.  "We will attend to the needs of these students who witnessed this very carefully, with the understanding that this is very traumatic," he said at a press conference outside the school.  Interim Superintendent for the Los Angeles Unified School District Vivian Ekchian said in a statement, "our thoughts and prayers are with those who were hurt in today's shooting incident".  Ms Ekchian added the school district is "providing appropriate supports to those who may be impacted by the incident".  This is at least the third shooting at a US school in recent weeks.  On 23 January a student in Kentucky opened fire on fellow students, shooting 17 and killing two.  A day earlier, a 16-year-old student was apprehended after wounding a student at a Texas school.  Is it time for US teachers to carry guns?
	White House 'to release' secret memo			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42910377	BBC News	A Republican-drafted memo alleging FBI bias against US President Donald Trump will be released on Friday, a senior White House official says.  Mr Trump is expected to declassify the document and send it to Congress for release, according to US media.  The FBI has voiced "grave concerns" about the release of the memo, which may have redactions.  It reportedly says the FBI misled an intelligence court to obtain a warrant to spy on the Trump election campaign.  Democrats say the memo is a ruse to discredit a federal inquiry into links between President Trump's presidential campaign and Russia.  The four-page document was compiled by aides for House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes, who served on the Trump team during his White House transition.  It reportedly accuses the FBI and justice department of misleading a judge in March last year while seeking to extend a surveillance warrant against Carter Page, who was a foreign policy adviser to the 2016 Trump election campaign.  The memo is said to argue that the FBI and justice department did not tell the judge that some of their justification for the warrant relied on a much-disputed Trump-Russia dossier.  Compiled by a former British intelligence agent, that dossier was financed in part through the campaign of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton to dig up dirt on Mr Trump.  Unnamed sources told Reuters news agency the Republican memo is misleading because all the dossier excerpts used in the FBI warrant application were independently confirmed by US intelligence.  Mr Page, the former Trump adviser, testified before a congressional committee last November that he met Russian government officials during a trip to Moscow in July 2016.  Congressional Democratic leaders called on Thursday for Mr Nunes' immediate removal as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.  They accuse him of seeking to undermine inquiries into whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Kremlin or obstructed US investigators.  Democrats say the White House could use the memo to justify firing justice department special counsel Robert Mueller, whose Russia investigation is overhanging the Trump presidency.  The House Intelligence Committee's top Democrat, Adam Schiff, says Republicans have also amended the memo.  Mr Schiff said the text was changed after the Republicans who control the panel voted on Monday to release the document.  The California Democrat said Mr Nunes had sent the White House a version of the memo that had been "materially altered".  But an unnamed Republican aide said the amendments were grammatical changes and "minor edits", including two tweaks requested by the FBI and by Democrats.  The aide accused Democrats of an "increasingly strange attempt to thwart publication".  The Republican president's declassification of the memo could pit him against his own Department of Justice.  The agency, which oversees the FBI, has warned that the memo's release could jeopardise underlying intelligence used to draft it.  It could also damage the arrangement under which US intelligence agencies brief lawmakers on secrets, with the understanding they will not end up in the public domain.  FBI Director Christopher Wray, who was appointed by President Trump, said on Thursday he will issue a rebuttal if the document is released.  The FBI issued an unusual rebuke on Wednesday to the president and his fellow Republicans in Congress.  The law enforcement bureau voiced "grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo's accuracy".  The president has called the Russia investigation a "witch hunt" and "hoax".
	950 miners trapped after power cut			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-42909508	BBC News	About 950 workers remain trapped in a gold mine in South Africa after a storm caused a power cut, preventing them from getting out,  Without electricity, lifts could not bring the night shift workers to the surface, but they "appear to be fine", a spokesman for their employer said.  He said about 65 miners have so far been rescued and all are accounted for.  Trade union officials said they feared that the lives of the miners, trapped since Wednesday night, were at risk.  South Africa is a leading gold producer, but the industry has often been accused of a poor safety record.  The Beatrix mine is in Welkom town, about 290km (180 miles) south-west of Johannesburg. It is owned by Sibanye-Stillwater mining firm.  It has 23 levels, going down to 1,000 metres (3,280 ft) below ground.  "All employees appear to be fine. We are supplying food and water," company spokesman James Wellsted was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency.  Engineers were struggling to get emergency generators to operate and to get the lifts working again, he added.  "We are busy working on that issue at the moment," Mr Wellsted said.  The National Union of Mineworkers (Num) said the rescue process was "very slow".  "The problem is they are rescuing one mineworker at a time. It is worrying," Num spokesman Livhuwani Mammburu said.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) said its concerns about dehydration and a lack of food had been heightened by "the sheer number of workers" trapped.  "Mining is very unsafe, and mineworkers risk life and limb daily to put bread on the table for their families," Amcu leader Joseph Mathunjwa said in a statement.  South Africa has some of the world's deepest and most dangerous mines.  More than 80 fatalities were recorded in the country's mines in 2017.
	Fake porn videos deleted from internet			http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-42905185	BBC News	Pornographic videos that used new software to replace the original face of an actress with that of a celebrity are being deleted by a service that hosted much of the content.  San Francisco-based Gfycat has said it thinks the clips are "objectionable".  The creation of such videos has become more common after the release of a free tool earlier this month that made the process relatively simple.  The developer says FakeApp has been downloaded more than 100,000 times.  It works by using a machine-learning algorithm to create a computer-generated version of the subject's face.  To do this it requires several hundred photos of the celebrity in question for analysis and a video clip of the person whose features are to be replaced.  The results - known as deepfakes - differ in quality.  But in some cases, where the two people involved are of a similar build, they can be quite convincing.  Some people have used the technology to create non-pornographic content.  These include a video in which the face of Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has been replaced with that of US President Donald Trump, and several in which one movie star's features have been swapped with those of another.  But the most common use of the tool has apparently been to reversion pornography to feature popular female actresses and singers. Many of these clips have subsequently been shared online and critiqued by others.  Many creators uploaded their clips to Gfycat. The service is commonly used to host short videos that are then posted to social website Reddit and elsewhere.  Gfycat allows adult content, but began deleting some of the deepfakes earlier this week, a matter that was first reported by the news site Motherboard.  "Our terms of service allow us to remove content that we find objectionable. We are actively removing this content," Gfycat said in a brief statement.  Reddit has yet to comment on the matter. It still provides access to clips that Gfycat has yet to delete, as well as deepfakes hosted by others.  But it is not clear whether it would recognise the deepfakes as such. Moreover, it requires the subject involved to make a complaint.  However, Gfycat is not the only party to have forced some of the material offline.  The owner to the rights of some of the explicit content has demanded that clips be blocked on copyright grounds.  In addition, the chat service Discord closed down a group dedicated to sharing the clips, saying that they had violated its rules on non-consensual pornography.
	Trump's 'highest' audience boast debunked			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42897622	BBC News	President Donald Trump's boast that TV viewership for his speech to Congress this week was the "highest number in history" is belied by ratings data.  Nielsen, which tracks US TV viewership, says Mr Trump's 45.6m viewers falls short of the numbers who tuned in to other State of the Union addresses.  Nielsen says Presidents Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and George W Bush all drew bigger ratings for their speeches.  Mr Trump's overall audience figure would be boosted by online viewers.  "Thank you for all of the nice compliments and reviews on the State of the Union speech," Mr Trump tweeted on Thursday morning.  But according to Nielsen data, Mr Obama's first official State of the Union speech in 2010 attracted 48 million viewers.  Mr Clinton's State of the Union pulled in a record 66.9 million television viewers in 1993.  Mr Bush pulled in 62.1 million in 2003, a few weeks before the Iraq War.  About one quarter of total viewers watched the speech on Fox News, which Nielsen said received a total 11.5m viewers.  The Nielsen survey comprises data from 12 television networks and does not take into account those who watched online.  CNN said that roughly an hour into Mr Trump's speech, their video-streaming platform peaked at 321,000 simultaneous users.  Twitter said it was the highest-trending State of the Union ever with 4.5 million tweets.  Mr Trump's TV ratings on Tuesday night were higher than those for his inauguration, when about 31 million viewers tuned in.  It is not the first time Mr Trump's claims about audience figures have been questioned.  He estimated that 1.5 million people attended his inauguration speech at the National Mall in Washington DC last year.  But his then-press secretary's estimate gave Mr Trump a crowd size of around half that figure.  In a 2015 profile for Rolling Stone magazine, Mr Trump asserted that his own 757 plane was bigger than the presidential jet, Air Force One.  Air Force One is 225ft (68 metres); Mr Trump's plane is 153ft.
	US man who killed daughters to be executed			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42910629	BBC News	A man who shot and killed his two daughters in 2001 will be executed in Texas on Thursday evening.  John Battaglia, 62, called the girls' mother before murdering his six and nine-year-old daughters in his Dallas apartment.  A last-minute appeal to save Battaglia's life has been launched by his lawyers, who argue he suffers from severe mental illness.  They have asked the US Supreme Court to spare Battaglia from execution and review his case because his "perception of reality may be so distorted that he is incompetent to be executed".  Battaglia will be the third prisoner put to death in the US this year. All executions have taken place in the state of Texas.  The former accountant and his wife Mary Jean Pearl divorced a year before the killings. Ms Pearl was seeking his arrest for violating a protective order against her the night he murdered their daughters.  On that evening in May 2001, Battaglia was scheduled to have dinner with the two girls when police informed him that he was violating probation and needed to surrender, court documents show.  When the girls arrived at the apartment he called his wife and put her on speaker phone.  The nine-year-old daughter asked: "Mommy, why do you want Daddy to go to jail?"  A few seconds later Ms Pearl said she heard her daughter say, "No, Daddy, please don't, don't do it", followed by gunshots and screams,  The girls were found dead in Battaglia's apartment after being shot multiple times, police said.  According to court documents, Battaglia went to a bar with his girlfriend after killing his daughters, and was later arrested at a tattoo parlour where he was getting tattoos of roses to remember them.  In 2002, Battaglia was convicted by a jury in 20 minutes.  Experts determined that he had "delusional disorder of the persecutory type" after examining him. However, prosecutors said that Battaglia was aware of his crimes and therefore fit to be executed.  He is scheduled to be put to death by lethal injection at 18:00 local time. (00:00 GMT)
	Climber describes 'Killer Mountain' ordeal			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-42909586	BBC News	A French mountaineer has described how she was forced to abandon her weak and ailing climbing partner in order to be rescued from one of Pakistan's most deadly Himalayan mountains.  Elisabeth Revol told AFP news agency that Polish climber Tomasz Mackiewicz's health worsened as they descended Nanga Parbat, nicknamed "Killer Mountain".  Only she was rescued by an elite Polish climbing team in a dramatic operation.  Doctors in France are now assessing whether she will require amputations.  Rescuers could not reach Mr Mackiewicz and it is thought unlikely he could have survived.  Among her recollections, Ms Revol said that altitude-induced hallucinations had caused her to take a shoe off in freezing conditions.  The pair began climbing on 20 January, and within a few days were approaching the summit.  But shortly after they reached the peak of the 8,120m (26,640ft) mountain, Mr Mackiewicz complained that he could not see.  Ms Revol told AFP: "He hadn't used a mask because it was a bit hazy during the day and by nightfall he had ophthalmia [an inflammation of the eye]."  He then clung to her shoulders as they began the difficult descent in darkness. Mr Mackiewicz, she said, began to have trouble breathing.  "He took off the protection he had in front of his mouth and he began to freeze. His nose became white and then his hands, his feet."  They huddled overnight in a crevasse but his condition deteriorated further with "blood streaming from his mouth" - a sign of a build up of fluid in the body, the ultimate stage of acute altitude sickness.  She sent several messages for help and was told by rescuers to go down to 6,000m. She then left Mr Mackiewicz behind. "It wasn't a decision I made, it was imposed on me," she said.  Thinking that help would arrive quickly, Ms Revol left without carrying a tent or a duvet. When rescuers did not turn up, she was forced to spend another night in a crevasse.  In the interview, she described having altitude-induced hallucinations. She imagined that people were bringing her hot tea, and that in order to thank them, she had to give them her shoe.  After being barefoot for five hours, Ms Revol developed frostbite.  She heard helicopters but, because of the strong winds, they could not reach her. Fearing that she would have to spend another night there, Ms Revol began a final descent, with wet gloves and frozen feet, and managed to reach one of the rescue teams.  She was flown to hospital in Islamabad and then on to Switzerland, before being transported across the French border.  Doctors in the Haute-Savoie region of eastern France are now assessing whether she will require amputations to her hands and left foot due to frostbite.  Despite the ordeal, she has not ruled out climbing again, saying: "I need this."
	US boy, three, 'killed over a cupcake'			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42906409	BBC News	Two sisters in the US city of Atlanta have been charged over the killing of a three-year-boy whose only crime, police say, was taking a cupcake.  Police say Kejuan Mason sneaked the cupcake from the kitchen while at home with Glenndria and Lashirley Morris.  According to the indictment, Lashirley beat the child with a baseball bat while her sister Glenndria, his legal guardian, spanked him with her hand.  He died from blunt force trauma to his head and his torso, say medics.  The two sisters gave conflicting accounts of what happened on 31 October, initially claiming he had choked on the cupcake, say media reports based on police sources.  They are charged with two counts of felony murder, one count of aggravated assault and two counts of cruelty in the first-degree.  They face life in prison without parole if found guilty.  According to reports, the child's mother had lost custody of her son when she lost her home, but she was attempting to get him back.  She had asked a judge to remove Kejuan from Glenndria's care when she noticed he had scratches and bruises, but her request was denied three days before he died, reported the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, a newspaper in the Georgia state capital.
	Polar bears 'running out of food'			http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-42909866	BBC News	High-tech collar tracking collars on nine female polar bears have measured the animals' efforts to find food on the diminishing Arctic ice.  The collars recorded video, locations and activity levels over 11 days, while metabolic tracers allowed scientists to work out how much energy bears used.  This revealed that the animals were unable to catch enough prey to meet their energy needs.  The team say wild bears have higher metabolic rates than thought.  Moreover, climate change appears to be having dramatic effects on the Arctic sea ice, forcing polar bears to move greater distances as they hunt, and making it harder for them to catch prey.  The vision of a polar bear plucking a vulnerable seal off an ice floe is something familiar to wildlife documentary fanatics. Earlier this winter though, an image of an emaciated polar bear went viral, with many asking if this was the telltale image of climate change.  The authors of this study, published in the journal Science, point out that the animals do now need to travel further to find seals, and that this is likely to be an "important factor explaining declines in their body condition and survival" of polar bears.  In Spring of 2014, 2015, and 2016, Anthony Pagano, a researcher at the University of California Santa Cruz and his colleagues, set out to track the polar bears' hunting and survival during this critical season. They captured nine females on the sea ice of the Beaufort Sea and measured the metabolic rates of each bear using blood and urine samples.  They also fitted the bear with the GPS-camera collars, to record and film their activity.  "We found that polar bears actually have much higher energy demands than predicted. They need to be catching a lot of seals," Mr Pagano explained.  Arctic is decreasing at a rate of 14% per decade, which is likely reducing polar bears' access to seals. And their plight could be exacerbated by the need to alter hunting strategies with the seasons.  In the spring, the researchers explained polar bears are mostly preying on juvenile seals. But later in the year, after the bears' long summer fast, those young seals are older and wiser, meaning polar bears are not able to catch as many.  "It's thought that bears might catch a couple per month in the fall, compared to five to 10 per month in the spring and early summer," Mr Pagano said.  "We now have the technology to learn how they are moving on the ice, their activity patterns, and their energy needs, so we can better understand the implications of these changes we are seeing in the sea ice."
	Canada votes for gender-neutral anthem			http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42903355	BBC News	The Canadian Senate has passed a bill that changes the text of the English-language version of the national anthem to make it gender-neutral.  It now awaits royal assent by the governor general to become law.  The move is set to change the words "in all thy sons command" to "in all of us command" in the anthem, O Canada.  The private member's bill from 2016 had stalled in the Senate as Conservatives fought its passage, but it won approval on a voice vote on Wednesday.  The fight to change two words in the lyrics of O Canada has stirred a passionate debate.  A similar plan was rejected in 2010 by the Conservatives, who then held the majority in parliament.  The new bill was first introduced in 2016 by Liberal MP Mauril Bélanger, who had been diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease) and who died later that year.  Since 1980, when O Canada officially became the country's anthem, 12 bills had been introduced in the House to strip the reference to "sons", but all attempts had failed until now, CBC reports.  A group of women including author Margaret Atwood and former Prime Minister Kim Campbell who launched a new campaign in 2013 to have the changes implemented said at the time a revision to O Canada's lyrics would "encapsulate the equality of all Canadians".  But not all Canadians welcomed the changes.  The song was first performed in 1880, with several different versions of the lyrics emerging in the coming years, according to Canadian Heritage.  Originally composed with French lyrics, O Canada became the country's national anthem in 1980.  The English version of the song at one point contained the line "thou dost in us command", which was revised in 1913 to "in all thy sons command".  The French version does not have a reference to sons.
